The smallest countries show no signs of fear of being swamped by Nigeria, by far the most populous country in the group (accounting for 155 million of the six countries’ 200 million people), especially as the new West African Central Bank is to be located in Accra, the capital of Ghana (24 million). Others, though, may fear the dilution of their sovereignty when the new Central Bank of the
takes over some of the policymaking responsibilities of national central banks.
But that, of course, is the chief purpose of a monetary union.
When the West African Monetary Zone finally is established, the number of currencies in Africa will equal about half the number of countries.
And when the East African Community with its five members (Burundi, Kenya, Rwanda, Tanzania, and Uganda) re-emerges as scheduled, the number of currencies will be reduced by another four.
The belief that sovereign national currencies, by enabling independent and flexible monetary policies, are the best way to foster economic and social development – the vision of Nigeria’s post-colonial leaders – is gradually falling by the wayside.
Efficiency dictates the use of fewer and larger currencies (and foreign investors, understandably wary of weak and volatile currencies, demand it).
Indeed, the success of the European Union and of the euro since its launch in 1999 has made a strong impression in Africa.
A Liquid Europe
BRUSSELS – Is the eurozone stepping back from the brink?
This might just be possible, because the emerging outlines of a new framework to resolve the ongoing sovereign-debt crisis contain a key component that was missing so far.
Indeed, that component’s absence was behind this summer’s spreading financial crisis, which moved beyond small, peripheral countries like Greece, Ireland, and Portugal to strike systemically important countries like Italy and Spain.
The starting point of the contagion was investors’ realization that Europe’s rescue fund, the European Financial Stability Facility, was designed to provide emergency financial support only to the peripheral countries.
It simply does not and will never have enough funds to undertake the massive bond purchases required to stabilize the debt markets of large economies such as Spain and Italy.
The EFSF will have at most €440 billion at its disposal (any increase would endanger France’s AAA rating), while the combined public debt of Italy and Spain is more than €2 trillion.
In early August, the domino effect of the eurozone periphery’s sovereign-debt crisis started to kick in, because financial markets do not wait for country after country to be downgraded.
Instead, they tend to anticipate the endgame, or at least one potential scenario, namely the unraveling of the entire crisis-containment structure.
Markets noticed that the euro seemed caught between a rock (the EFSF’s limited borrowing capacity) and a hard place (the European Central Bank’s great reluctance to engage in large-scale purchases of financially troubled governments’ bonds).
It later turned out that the ECB was not that hard after all, though it emphasized that it would stop intervening as soon as the new EFSF became operational.
And, given the EFSF’s limited firepower, the market would have been left without support.
To state the problem more generally, the eurozone requires a liquidity backstop for its fiscal authority.
In a “normal” economy with its own currency, the fiscal authorities can never face a liquidity shortage, because the government can always rely, at least potentially, on support from the central bank.
A eurozone government, by contrast, is always in a precarious situation: it has only very long-term assets (its taxing power) and shorter-term liabilities, namely government debt, much of which has to be rolled over annually.
If investors refuse to buy the debt on any terms, even a fiscally prudent government could find itself in a liquidity squeeze and become insolvent.
Similarly, banks have short-term liabilities (deposits) and long-term assets, which they cannot liquidate quickly without incurring great losses.
This is why all countries provide emergency liquidity support when a bank run materializes, as was done on a global scale when confidence in the banking sector collapsed alongside Lehman Brothers in 2008.
Likewise, the eurozone needs a mechanism to confront runs on its member countries’ government debt.
This requires that fiscal authorities have access to a large pool of liquidity in an emergency.
Only the ECB can provide this insurance.
The good news is that a solution is now slowly taking shape that promises to create a mechanism by which the ECB could backstop the EFSF.
This could be achieved simply by registering the EFSF as a bank, which would give it access to normal ECB refinancing on the same terms as other normal banks.
The EFSF could then conduct very large purchases of government debt by levering up its limited capital through ECB refinancing, using the government bonds it is buying as collateral.
In this way, the proper division of labor could be established.
The EFSF would be responsible for dealing with fiscal crises in member states.
For countries with solvency problems, an adjustment program like those for Greece, Ireland, or Portugal would be appropriate.
But, for large countries facing a liquidity shortage, the EFSF could rely on support from the ECB. 
If investors know that a liquidity squeeze is no longer possible, they will refrain from speculative attacks on solvent countries.
The near-panic conditions in financial markets eased as soon as rumors spread that this solution had at least been discussed behind closed doors.
It now needs to be implemented.
As always in Europe, there are legal and political obstacles to change.
But even the most reluctant policymakers recognize that the cost of inaction is too great.
The legal obstacles to potential “monetary financing” of the public sector in the European Union’s governing treaties can be overcome.
The more important obstacle is Germany’s reluctance to admit publicly that ECB liquidity support for government debt markets can be crucial in maintaining financial stability.
Only the German government and the ECB can open the door to this subtle but profound reform of the euro’s fundamental underpinnings.
It is a choice that they cannot put off much longer.
A Loan and a Prayer
NEW YORK – The countries known collectively as the PIIGS – Portugal, Ireland, Italy, Greece, and Spain – are burdened with increasingly unsustainable levels of public and private debt.   Several of the worst-hit – Portugal, Ireland, and Greece – have seen their borrowing costs soar to record highs in recent weeks, even after their loss of market access led to bailouts financed by the European Union and the International Monetary Fund.
Spanish borrowing costs are also rising.
Greece is clearly insolvent.
Even with a draconian austerity package, totaling 10% of GDP, its public debt would rise to 160% of GDP.
Portugal – where growth has been stagnant for a decade – is experiencing a slow-motion fiscal train wreck that will lead to public-sector insolvency.
In Ireland and Spain, transferring the banking system’s huge losses to the government’s balance sheet – on top of already-escalating public debt – will eventually lead to sovereign insolvency.
The official approach, Plan A, has been to pretend that these economies suffer a liquidity crunch, not a solvency problem, and that the provision of bailout loans – together with fiscal austerity and structural reforms – can restore debt sustainability and market access.
This “extend and pretend” or “lend and pray” approach is bound to fail, because, unfortunately, most of the options that indebted countries have used in the past to extricate themselves from excessive debt are not feasible.
For example, the time-honored solution of printing money and escaping debt via inflation is unavailable to the PIIGS, because they are trapped in the eurozone straitjacket.
The only institution that can crank up the printing press – the European Central Bank – will never resort to monetization of fiscal deficits.
Nor can we expect rapid GDP growth to save these countries.
The PIIGS’ debt burden is so high that robust economic performance is next to impossible.
Moreover, whatever economic growth some of these countries might eventually register is contingent on enacting politically unpopular reforms that will work only in the long run – and at the cost of even more short-term pain.
To restore growth, these countries must also regain competitiveness by achieving a real depreciation of their currency, thus turning trade deficits into surpluses.
But a rising euro – pushed higher by excessively early monetary tightening by the ECB – implies more real appreciation, further undermining competitiveness.
The German solution to this conundrum – keeping wage growth below that of productivity, thereby reducing unit labor costs – took more than a decade to yield results.
If the PIIGS started that process today, the benefits would be too long in coming to restore competitiveness and growth.
The last option – deflation of wages and prices – to reduce costs, achieve a real depreciation, and restore competitiveness is associated with ever-deepening recession.
The real depreciation necessary to restore external balance would drive the real value of euro debts even higher, making them even more unsustainable.
Lowering private and public consumption in order to boost private savings, and implementing fiscal austerity to reduce private and public debts, aren’t options, either.
The private sector can spend less and save more, but this would entail an immediate cost known as Keynes’ paradox of thrift: declining economic output and rising debt as a share of GDP.
Recent studies by the IMF and others suggest that raising taxes, cutting subsidies, and reducing government spending – even inefficient spending – would stifle growth in the short term, exacerbating the underlying debt problem.
If the PIIGS can’t inflate, grow, devalue, or save their way out of their problems, Plan A is either failing or is bound to fail.
The only alternative is to shift quickly to Plan B – an orderly restructuring and reduction of the debts of these countries’ governments, households, and banks.
This can happen in a number of ways.
One can carry out an orderly rescheduling of the PIIGS’ public debts without actually reducing the principal amount owed.
This means extending the maturity dates of debts and reducing the interest rate on the new debt to levels much lower than currently unsustainable market rates.
This solution limits the risk of contagion and the potential losses that financial institutions would bear if the value of debt principal were reduced.
Policymakers should also consider innovations used to help debt-burdened developing countries in the 1980’s and 1990’s.
For example, bondholders could be encouraged to exchange existing bonds for GDP-linked bonds, which offer payouts pegged to future economic growth.
In effect, these instruments turn creditors into shareholders in a country’s economy, entitling them to a portion of its future profits while temporarily reducing its debt burden.
Reducing the face value of mortgages and providing the upside – in case home prices were to rise in the long run – to the creditor banks is another way to convert mortgage debt partly into shareholder equity.
Bank bonds could also be reduced and converted into equity, which would both avert a government takeover of banks and prevent socialization of bank losses from causing a sovereign debt crisis.
Europe cannot afford to continue throwing money at the problem and praying that growth and time will bring salvation.
No one will descend from the heavens, deus ex machina, to bail out the IMF or the EU.
The creditors and bondholders who lent the money in the first place must carry their share of the burden, for the sake of the PIIGS, the EU, and their own bottom lines.
A Long March with China
BEIJING – US Vice President Joe Biden’s recent four-day visit to China ended on a high note.
He assured Chinese leaders that the United States is committed to honoring all its debts, despite its recent credit downgrade; he talked enthusiastically about US-China interdependence; and he showcased his granddaughter, who has studied Chinese for several years, as a future bridge between the two countries.
But, behind all the smiles and banquet toasts, serious issues and perception gaps continue to divide the world’s two great powers.
For starters, there is always an attitude problem.
To those who view China’s rise in a negative light, the country is simply becoming ever more arrogant.
It is getting tough in its territorial disputes with Japan in the East China Sea; it is becoming assertive in the South China Sea with its neighbors, also over disputed islands; it put its own stealth fighter on display during the US defense secretary’s visit to China; it is sending its first aircraft carrier out to sea for trials, indicating the possibility of establishing naval bases in the Indian Ocean.
Even a brawl between the Chinese and a visiting American basketball team is viewed as evidence of China’s aggressive behavior.
Many Chinese, on the other hand, tend to think that the US is suffering from severe case of conceited superpower syndrome.
As these Chinese see it, the US has a rather dysfunctional government, but nevertheless insists that its political and economic system is the best in the world, and that everyone should emulate it.
It is heavily in debt, but cannot stop spending and borrowing.
It is no longer competitive in manufacturing, but blames others for its huge trade deficit.
And the world’s only military superpower is often seen within China as trigger-happy when intervening in other countries’ internal affairs.
Then, there is the issue of trust.
China’s critics argue that its claims to a peaceful rise are not credible, given the country’s non-democratic, one-party system.
Coupled with this is a zero-sum view of the world, in which any Chinese gain in the share of the global economy, or any increased presence in many parts of the world, must be at the expense of the US or other powers.
Any Chinese military move is portrayed as an expansionary and aggressive act that must be contained.
Any attempts at engagement by Western politicians, such as Biden’s recent trip, are automatically met with doubt and criticism for cozying up to dictators.
Likewise, for those Chinese who are suspicious of US intentions, conspiracy is always in play.
They see a declining superpower using economic, military, and diplomatic means in an unrelenting effort to prevent China’s rise.
Talk of human rights and democracy is nothing but a smoke screen for demonizing China.
Arms sales to Taiwan, Tibetan activism, and “color revolutions” of various kinds are all sponsored by the US and other Western powers, and are aimed at weakening China.
Despite decades of close interaction, with millions of Americans, Europeans, and Japanese visiting China every year and similar numbers of Chinese now visiting the US and other advanced countries, both sides see each other through a glass darkly.
Increased interdependence has not led to better understandings on even some of the most basic issues.
China’s Vice Minister of Foreign Affairs Fu Ying expressed her country’s anxiety about this state of affairs in a recent interview. “The most important thing is the question of whether China and the US are enemies.
Are we going to be in a war?
Are we preparing for a war against each other?” Biden, while reaffirming that the US does not view China as an enemy, implied that Fu’s worries are not fanciful, saying that the worst scenario is a misunderstanding that leads to an unintended conflict.
So the key issue for China, its neighbors, the US, and rest of the world is not how many aircraft carriers, missiles, submarines, and next-generation fighters China may produce and deploy in the coming years and decades.
Rather, it is how China intends to use its newly acquired economic and military strength in pursuing its domestic and foreign-policy goals – and how the world’s leading powers can ensure that they do not end up harming each other by accident or misunderstanding.
To meet these challenges successfully, there is no viable alternative to a positive, continuous, and frank engagement between China and the rest of the world.
The Chinese economy will continue to grow; the Chinese military will continue to modernize; and the Chinese people will remain united in their Great Power aspirations.
A Cold War-style confrontation and containment policy from the West will be met with strong resistance from the Chinese, whose global leverage, particularly in finance, cannot be ignored.
Only a patient, creative, and consistent engagement strategy will mitigate fears on both sides.
China’s rise is a fact; the enduring peacefulness of that rise must be a priority for China, its neighbors, the West, and, most importantly, the US.
A Looming Anti-Depressants Crisis
The widespread prescription of drugs for troubled minds has always ended badly, right back to the days of opiates and cocaine, up through bromides, barbiturates, and tranquilizers: all proved to be highly addictive drugs, but only after years of denial did doctors admit that this was so.
Now anti-depressants--global brands with household names--are the problem.
The past decade has seen a three-fold increase in prescriptions.
In England, prescriptions of anti-depressants now match Valium at its peak in 1979.
It is now clear that today's anti-depressants are not the wonder drugs they were touted as being.
The sometimes intolerable withdrawal symptoms that can make it difficult and hazardous to stop taking anti-depressants also expose many users to severe and depressing side effects: substantial weight gain, loss of libido, and mood changes, to name just the most common complaints.
Suspicions about such problems--especially about drug-induced suicidal behavior and sensitization to depression--have been rumbling for years, but searching scientific investigations have only just begun.
An important inquiry set up by the United Kingdom's drug regulators in mid-2003 will soon report its findings.
They will no doubt be presented mainly as recommendations for small-print changes in the warnings on drug labels and in the instructions for the drug's use.
This may help, it but won't address the real issue: how could regulators have allowed this problem to recur after so much bitter experience, and why should they now be allowed to investigate themselves?
On the Richter scale of drug disasters, the looming anti-depressant crisis appears to range between 7 and 11, where thalidomide rates a 10.
Time will tell, but the key point is this: the thalidomide disaster of the 1950's and 1960's happened because there was no independent control of drug safety, whereas the anti-depressant crisis has grown under the aegis of an elaborate, expensive, and global regulatory system.
The nub of the anti-depressant crisis is not that these drugs could do so much harm, but that they were allowed to do so when the precedents were so plain.
If and when this crisis is ever properly investigated, it will not so much open a can of pharmacological worms, as expose questions about what medicine is and should be.
These underlying issues seem all the more important because the Internet has for several years been groaning with evidence of the crisis to come.
The explosive growth of the Internet introduced completely new opportunities for gathering, presenting, and communicating evidence.
It broadened and deepened understanding of the problems associated with anti-depressants, giving patients a collective voice, as never before.
Previously, drug safety monitoring relied on occasional adverse reports from health professionals about patients' reaction to medicines.
But this crisis revealed these reports' fundamental inadequacies, such that users' experiences with drugs can never credibly be ignored again.
United by the Internet, many thousands of patients from all over the world began to describe experiences with anti-depressant drugs and problems brought on by withdrawal that bore little resemblance to the labels' warnings.
The impact of this user intelligence has been profound: in 2003, one pharmaceutical company revised its 2002 estimate of the incidence of withdrawal reactions from 0.2% to 25% (even as the manufacturer of a similar drug continues to claim that it is "not habit forming" at all).
The anti-depressant crisis provides, for the first time, dramatic evidence of the collective value of user reports in understanding drug risk.
To be sure, user reports are not "scientific" and most, individually, might seem naïve, confused, exaggerated, mistaken, and/or just plain self-absorbed.
Yet in this case they provided, collectively, more reliable evidence than that reported in numerous controlled clinical trials.
So, now the question is not so much the value of patients' reports, but the integrity of medical research and the state of science.
"Just how tainted has clinical medicine become," asked an editorial in the British medical journal
The crisis now unfolding raises broad issues concerning democracy and science, the relationship between risk and benefit, and the conflict between imperatives of trade and health.
But one feature above all others captures the underlying problem: the yawning gap between the words of patients who speak their minds and the terminology of producers, experts, and authorities who mince words.
The 1990's saw "depression" formally redefined as a serotonin-deficiency disease and the scourge of millions--a convenient and seductive view, but deeply simplistic.
The term "drug dependence" was also redefined, to propose that loss of personal autonomy could never arise in a therapeutic setting.
The ubiquitous term "discontinuation symptoms"--Orwellian
On the contrary, wishful thinking led experts to adduce "discontinuation symptoms" as evidence of the effectiveness of vital remedies.
Later, suicides became routinely described as "non-accidental overdoses," and the broad-spectrum term "emotional lability" came into vogue, despite its inability to distinguish between a drug-induced suicide attempt and an outburst of tears.
By contrast, user reports of adverse reactions attempt to describe some human reality, rather than promote images that suit the vested interests involved.
In the long run, the anti-depressant crisis thus may prove to be a blessing in disguise, but only if it brings about the transparency and intellectual honesty needed to make the medical profession ultimately accountable to the people it claims to serve.
A Man against the Machine
WASHINGTON, DC ­– America’s financial sector has shown renewed strength in recent months – political strength, that is – by undermining most of the sensible proposals for banking reform that remain on the table.
If we are still making any progress at all, it is because of the noble efforts of a small number of United States senators.
Most notable has been the work of Senator Ted Kaufman, a Democrat from Delaware (yes, a pro-business state), who has pressed tirelessly to fix the most egregious problems in the US financial sector.
Kaufman understands that successful reform requires three ingredients: arguments that persuade, the ability to bring colleagues along, and a good deal of luck in the form of events that highlight problems at just the right time.
On two fronts, Kaufman has – against long odds – actually managed to make substantial steps.
Long before it became fashionable, Kaufman persisted with the idea that the US real estate boom was fueled in part by pervasive fraud within the mortgage-securitization-derivatives complex, effectively at the heart of Wall Street.
This thesis is now gaining much broader traction – major newspapers now report a broadening criminal probe by the federal government – and by New York’s state attorney general – into the US financial sector’s residential lending and related securities practices.
With Senators Patrick Leahy and Chuck Grassley, Kaufman worked last year to pass a bill providing timely resources to federal law enforcement agencies working on recent financial fraud.
More recently, Kaufman was devastating in his cross-examination of Goldman Sachs executives.
Senator Carl Levin, chairman of the subcommittee that heard their testimony, evidently seeing eye to eye with Kaufman, was just as tough after a year-long investigation of Washington Mutual, Goldman, and the abject failures of bank regulators and credit rating agencies.
Kaufman scored an even bigger coup with his warnings about the dangers of the explosive growth of high-frequency trading, which is little understood by America’s main financial watchdog, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), and poses systemic market risk.
His concerns appear to have been vindicated by the 20-minute shutdown of trading in New York on May 6, when the stock market completely failed in its most basic function: price discovery between buyers and sellers.
We do not yet know what combination of black-box computer programs and electronic trading algorithms, interacting across more than 50 market centers, caused this catastrophe.
But our lack of knowledge itself confirms how far our regulatory and surveillance capabilities have fallen behind “financial innovation.”
Kaufman’s approach – with speeches on the Senate floor as a central feature – seemed irrelevant or even quaint to critics even a few weeks ago.
No significant Wall Street voices acknowledged his concerns – preferring instead to praise the equity markets as a shining example of well-functioning technology.
Now people get it.
As Senator Mark Warner graciously acknowledged, “The Senator from Delaware sounded an early warning signal that the massive amounts of investments that had been made by certain firms to try to get what appears to be a fractional millisecond advantage in the trading process might come back and haunt us all... I’ve been proud to follow his lead.”
The SEC was once a great and powerful independent agency.
It fell on hard times in recent decades and is only beginning to get its act together under new leadership.
Yet it still does not routinely collect the data that it needs – trades by time and customer – to understand the actions and impact of large traders.
Kaufman has consistently pressed them to do more – and do it much faster; to be sure, they and many others are now listening.
On a third issue, the results so far are mixed.
Kaufman championed the case for making America’s biggest banks smaller, as part of comprehensive financial-reform efforts.
His advocacy helped build support and forced a Senate floor vote on an amendment, co-sponsored with Senator Sherrod Brown, that would have imposed a hard cap on banks’ size and leverage (debt relative to assets).
The amendment was moderate and entirely reasonable, yet it went down to defeat, 33-61, also on May 6.
It might have gained more support just a few days later – after senators witnessed the bailout of the giant eurozone banks.
Still, it has strengthened backing for another amendment, sponsored by Senators Jeff Merkley and Carl Levin, which would restrict proprietary trading by megabanks for their own account – coincidentally a practice that is presumed to be a large and “dark” part of high-speed trading.
The deeper and overriding point of Kaufman’s critique of our system is the need for tough laws.
We cannot merely rely on regulators to do the right thing.
In particular, regulators have no chance to look over the horizon and act preventively when markets are opaque, and when powerful Wall Street interests (and their Capitol Hill allies) can circle the wagons and claim that there is no problem.
Unfortunately, despite his newfound prominence on the national stage, Kaufman will be out of office at the end of this year – he was appointed to fill Vice President Joe Biden’s seat at the end of 2008 and committed at that time not to run for re-election.
When he goes, dangerous elements on Wall Street will no doubt breathe a sigh of relief.
Let’s hope that by then he will have helped move the consensus permanently among his colleagues – preparing the ground for further congressional action aimed at a serious tightening of safeguards over the financial sector.
Kaufman’s lasting legacy will be a simple and powerful idea that reasonable people increasingly find to be self-evident: relying on deregulation and self-interest in today’s complex, opaque markets will manifestly fail to produce a reasonable allocation of capital or support entrepreneurship and growth.
We must write and enforce laws that restore credibility to our financial markets.
A Mania for Diagnosing Bipolar Disorder
PROVIDENCE, RI – During the past few years, many experts have suggested that bipolar disorder – a serious illness resulting in significant psychosocial morbidity and excess mortality – is under-recognized, particularly in patients with major depression.
Even patients who are diagnosed with bipolar disorder often wait more than 10 years after initially seeking treatment for the correct diagnosis to be made.
The clinical implications of the failure to recognize bipolar disorder in depressed patients include the under-prescription of mood-stabilizing medications, and an increased risk of rapid “cycling” – swings between manic and depressive phases.
But, perhaps as a consequence of concerted efforts to improve the recognition of bipolar disorder, during the past few years we have observed the emergence of an opposite phenomenon – over-diagnosis.
In my own practice, my colleagues and I have encountered patients who reported that they were previously diagnosed with bipolar disorder, despite lacking a history of manic or hypomanic episodes.
To be sure, we have also seen patients seeking treatment for depression who really did have bipolar disorder.
However, there seemed to be more over-diagnosis than under-diagnosis.
We therefore conducted a study to examine empirically how often bipolar disorder might be over- and under-diagnosed.
Seven hundred psychiatric outpatients were interviewed with the Structured Clinical Interview for DSM-IV (SCID) and completed a self-administered questionnaire that asked whether they had been previously diagnosed by a health-care professional with bipolar or manic-depressive disorder.
Family history information was obtained from the patient regarding their immediate relatives.
Slightly more than 20% (145 patients) in our sample reported that they had been previously diagnosed as having bipolar disorder, significantly higher than the 12.9% rate based on the SCID.
Less than half of those who reported that they had been previously diagnosed with bipolar disorder were diagnosed with bipolar disorder based on the SCID.
Patients with SCID-diagnosed bipolar disorder had a significantly higher risk of bipolar disorder in their immediate family members than patients who self-reported a previous diagnosis of bipolar disorder that was not confirmed by the SCID.
Patients who self-reported a previous diagnosis of bipolar disorder that was not confirmed by the SCID did not have a significantly higher risk for bipolar disorder than the patients who were negative for bipolar disorder by self-report and the SCID.
Our findings, validated by family history, thus suggest that bipolar disorder was over-diagnosed.
Any study seeking to determine whether a psychiatric disorder is over-diagnosed will find that some patients with the condition do not have it upon re-interview.
Such is the nature of the imperfect reliability of psychiatric diagnosis.
The question, then, is not whether
Over-diagnosis of bipolar disorder has costs.
Mood stabilizers are the treatment of choice, and, depending on the medication, they can produce potentially significant health complications affecting renal, endocrine, hepatic, immunologic, or metabolic function.
Thus, over-diagnosing bipolar disorder can unnecessarily expose patients to serious side-effects of medication.
The impact of marketing efforts by pharmaceutical companies and publicity probably plays a role in the emerging tendency to over-diagnose bipolar disorder.
Direct-to-consumer advertisements that refer individuals to screening questionnaires can result in patients suggesting to their doctors that they have bipolar disorder.
We have seen evidence of this in our practice.
This does not necessarily reflect a problem with the performance of a screening questionnaire, but rather how these scales are used.
Screening questionnaires maximize sensitivity, at a cost of false positives, because it is presumed that they are followed by expert clinical evaluation.
But insufficient diagnostic rigor can result in over-diagnosis.
Clinicians are inclined to diagnose disorders that they feel more comfortable treating.
We believe that the increased availability of medications that have been approved for the treatment of bipolar disorder might be influencing clinicians who are unsure whether or not a patient has bipolar disorder or borderline personality disorder to err on the side of diagnosing the disorder that is responsive to medication.
This bias is reinforced by the marketing message of pharmaceutical companies to physicians, which has emphasized research on delayed diagnosis and under-recognition of bipolar disorder, possibly sensitizing clinicians accordingly.
The campaign against under-recognition has probably resulted in some anxious, agitated, and/or irritable depressed patients who complain of insomnia and “racing thoughts” being misdiagnosed with bipolar disorder.
The results of our study are consistent with prior studies suggesting possible problems with the diagnosis of bipolar disorder. With the greater number of medications approved for the treatment of bipolar disorder, along with multiple reports cautioning clinicians against under-diagnosis, it appears that over-diagnosis has become a greater problem than under-diagnosis.
Both can have negative consequences. While there is still some uncertainty as to the best assessment approach, we recommend that clinicians use a standardized, validated method.
A Marshall Plan for the Arab World
ROME – US President Barack Obama’s major speech on the consequences of the Arab Spring is also a challenge for Europe.
Only if the trans-Atlantic partnership proves effective, as it did to meet the demands of the Cold War and the end of Europe’s division, can the West contribute to realizing the hopes engendered by the Arab uprisings.
The crisis in Europe’s southern neighborhood reflects a deep-seated transformation process that will have long-lasting consequences – for the region, for Europe, and for the world.
The Mediterranean region is vital to Europe’s peace, stability, and economic growth.
The continent’s Mediterranean neighbors look to Europe as their natural partner.
And events there, including the Israeli-Palestinian peace process, have a broader impact that naturally entails the close involvement of global partners – first and foremost the United States.
Current events, not just in Libya, but also in Tunisia, Egypt, Syria, Yemen, and Bahrain, mirror the political complexity of these countries.
They also spring from different factors, such as frustration with rising food prices and widespread corruption, coupled with demands for greater democratization, reduction of economic and social inequalities, and job creation.
Europe’s response to this process must embody the goal of an orderly and rapid transition.
Proposals for some sort of “partnership for transformation,” based on political reform and full respect of human rights and fundamental freedoms, should bear in mind that the region’s political landscape looks certain to remain volatile and tense in the coming months.
No surprise, then, that regional stability has emerged as a high priority for Europeans.
Chaos, a resurgence of terrorism, the rise of radical Islamism, and massive waves of immigration towards Europe are just a few of the potential threats to the European Union that are now being contemplated.
Given this, the EU should be doing its utmost to prevent any deterioration of the region’s security.
Just as the post-1945 Marshall Plan consisted of a financial-aid package aimed at reconstructing and re-launching Western Europe’s economies to support democratic transformation and political stability, the countries of the Arab Spring face similar challenges and needs.
We need to enable countries like Egypt and Tunisia – and possibly a peaceful Libya – to strengthen their political stability through democratization.
The Marshall Plan was accompanied by partnerships for reconstruction in which the US and European recipient countries were on an equal footing.
The aim was to strengthen cooperation as a means of creating a lasting peace.
The situation in the Mediterranean region is at a more advanced stage. The broad planks of a partnership are already there, so what is now needed is to enhance Europe’s integration with its southern neighbors.
This is why Italy has proposed a new EU “Plan for the Mediterranean” aimed at supporting the transition process and building upon existing institutional and financial tools to provide the region with additional resources.
The Union for the Mediterranean, launched by French President Nicolas Sarkozy in 2008, must be revitalized and re-directed towards development projects ranging from highways and ports to the promotion of small and medium-size enterprises (SMEs).
But a broader economic initiative is also needed to mobilize a critical mass of European and international financial resources to attract investment to the region and modernize its infrastructures and services.
Let us, together with the US, tear down the trade and economic barriers that are stifling these economies.
Let us also grant some Mediterranean countries association status that will allow them to integrate progressively into the EU’s internal market and participate in EU programs.
To achieve all of this, a clear set of principles is required.
We Europeans must favor stability, create a real spirit of co-ownership, and promote political responsibility.In this new framework, the EU should avoid excessive conditionality, especially during the transition period.
Europe’s strong support for the region’s economic development must remain the top priority, as Arab countries introduce necessary reforms.
Moreover, a dedicated financial institution should be set up to aid in this task.
One proposal worth considering is to upgrade and strengthen the European Investment Bank’s Facility for Euro-Mediterranean Investment and Partnership (FEMIP), which would become an autonomous institution, perhaps headquartered in the Middle East or North Africa, with shares held by the region’s governments (or other institutions) and other willing parties.
The London-based European Bank for Reconstruction and Development could join this effort by extending its activities to the region, which could be coupled with the creation of dedicated services to support the growth of job-creating enterprises.
The EBRD made an important contribution to the economic transition process in Eastern Europe; there’s a good case for drawing on its experience and expertise to help the southern Mediterranean.
At the same time, the EU must launch a “dialogue among equals” on political and security matters, aimed at confidence-building across the region.
A Conference on Security and Cooperation in the Mediterranean and the Middle East (CSCM) could quickly become a useful instrument for promoting this comprehensive approach to security and development.
In short, we need to transform the Mediterranean countries into producers rather than consumers of regional stability.
We Europeans cannot afford to turn our backs on our Arab friends along the far shores of “mare nostrum.”
They are part of our collective history, and they deserve the better future that we can help them to build.
A Middle Eastern Union?
TOLEDO, SPAIN – This autumn, the Toledo International Centre for Peace convened a meeting devoted to water cooperation in the Middle East.
One conclusion that emerged was that any effective response to the unequal distribution of natural resources in the region must be regional.
With this idea in mind, Munther Haddadin, a former Jordanian minister of water resources, proposed for the Middle East a “Water and Energy Union,” a long-term mechanism to integrate a fragmented region.
The idea is compelling.
Attending to such basic needs in a way that manages scarcities and surpluses regionally has a powerful logic.
Indeed, the parallels with the role of coal and steel in forging the European Union are clear enough that, over the past month, Joschka Fischer, Germany’s former foreign minister, has called for such a union.
So, too, have former Czech president Václav Havel and a group of global luminaries who support the idea of regional integration through water.
Having convened the meeting in Spain, we are very much in favor of the pursuit of such a worthy goal.
But the European “coal and steel union” became possible only after Europe’s major political conflicts were resolved.
A successful process of regional integration in the Middle East will also require a political framework that ensures the stability needed to make regional cooperation work.
All sides need to know where their borders begin and end. And past injustices will need to be put aside, so that the cycle of revenge and the automatic reflex in favor of immediate gain do not scuttle regional solutions to problems.
Here, the experience of a previous regional exercise is worth acknowledging.
During the 1990’s, the multilateral track of the Middle East Peace Process pursued regional coordination concerning economic development, the environment, refugees, arms control, and water.
It failed, because when the bilateral talks collapsed, readiness to engage in regional cooperation withered under the despair of failed politics and the bloody reality of the Second Intifada.
The necessary political framework also needs to be regional and, fortunately, it exists.
The Arab Peace Initiative, first tabled at an Arab League Summit in Beirut in 2002 and reconfirmed in Riyadh in 2007, provides all the parties with a framework to resolve their differences, as well as a political basis for moving forward.
Adopting it is essential to moving forward, especially if additional chapters addressing regional security and economic relations are included.
Despite today’s chronic pessimism, the pursuit of a Middle East Water and Energy Union, coupled with adoption of the Arab Peace Initiative, would change mindsets.
Together, they would form a mutually reinforcing process: a political agreement would provide the framework in which the region’s water and energy needs can be met; and meeting these basic needs in an effective and innovative way would make the Arab Peace Initiative more than a paper deal.
Moreover, the arid triangle formed by Israel, Palestine, and Jordan cannot meet its water needs unless yet another dimension is incorporated into the solution.
A World Bank report has already stated that, with 19 million people living between the Jordan River and the Mediterranean by 2020, water needs would not be met without making existing technologies of desalinization more economically viable.
Coincidentally, over the past month, there have been early signals of greater interest in a regional political approach.
The Bahraini foreign minister recently called for a regional forum that includes Israel to resolve the problems ahead; a former senior Saudi official met with Israelis in the United Kingdom to reiterate the need for a comprehensive peace agreement; and Israeli Labor Party leader Ehud Barak has said that it may be time to pursue an overall peace deal for the region, accompanied by an economic package, since separate negotiations with Syria and the Palestinians may prove fruitless.
Despite decades of effort, the process of trial and error through bilateral and conflict-management approaches has always ended in frustration.
Whatever economic projects have been launched has crumbled in the face of the persistence of the occupation.
The problems are too complex, and the dangers of radicalism too advanced, to permit success through haphazard means.
The Middle East can end its state of permanent crisis only if it builds a comprehensive foundation for peace.
The Arab Peace Initiative, combined with the long-term development of a Water and Energy Union, offers the necessary basis to meet the needs of the region’s peoples and mitigate future conflict.
The Middle East must no longer be a hallmark of intractable violence.
It can be a herald of innovation on issues of common human concern – water, energy, and politics.
A Misaligned Euro?
CAMBRIDGE: Caught by rising inflation from oil prices and a soaring dollar, the European Central Bank (ECB) has raised interest rates yet another notch.
More is to come.
Growth is wonderful; inflation is terrible; a central bank cannot avoid choosing: it must restore price stability even if that means sacrificing growth.
This is what lies ahead, unless there is sudden relief from an upturn in the euro.
But is it realistic to expect a rally from a currency that has been under siege since its birth?
At its introduction the euro reached impressive heights, like a high-tech IPO.
But the IPO soon sunk miserably.
Since its introduction, the euro has fallen further from its peak then even the Nasdaq in the high-tech sell-off of earlier this year.
Like the Nasdaq’s high-tech high-flyers, the nagging questions about the euro are these: what is its fundamental value?
Is there a fundamental misalignment of the euro with other currencies (most notably the dollar) and how long might this last?
It is commonly assumed (but nobody takes big bets) that the Nasdaq still carries major downside risks while the euro, sooner or later, must return to normality, whatever that means.
Could the opposite happen?
A recent study by the IMF reports on “equilibrium” exchange rates derived from models of long run factors in currency valuations.
The equilibrium rates are reported in the accompanying table and so are today’s actual rates.
According to these IMF theoretical equilibrium rates, the euro is grossly misaligned: 30% underpriced against the dollar, 18% against the Yen!
----------------------------------------------------------------------
Actual IMF Equilibrium Rate
Dollar/Euro ($/_) 0.88 1.26
Yen/Euro (-/_) 93.1 113.3
----------------------------------------------------------------------
In judging whether these theoretical values foreshadow a big euro realignment, lets see what causes them.
First and most importantly, these equilibrium rates are based on a theoretical model where long run current account balances tend toward zero.
Under this scenario, any country that runs persistent, large current account balances must look forward to a hard landing and a correction in the value of its currency.
No country can borrow forever or at least at very high rates.
But do current account constraints apply to major, financially stable countries?
Canada has run current account deficits for all but three of the last 50 years; the US has done the same for 30 years.
So long as a borrowing country is stable and attractive, a major reversal due to the current account balance will not be forced by the market.
That is America’s story: despite a yawning trade deficit, investment is running high, eagerly financed by the rest of the world; public finance is formidable and inflation insignificant; new economy prospects run unabated and asset markets are revealing that even if there is a US bubble, it is unlikely to burst as violently as in Japan a decade ago.
In such an environment, long run equilibrium rate models are pretty useless as guides to short or even medium term exchange rate developments.
The second limitation of long run models is this: they are estimated from history and so make no allowance for dramatic changes in the supply side or financial environment.
Japan, for example, is in the grip of a growth crisis and public finance disaster - not the usual companions of an appreciating currency.
On the dollar/euro front, the US has embarked on a high productivity trend unmatched anywhere; never mind the current account, the upswing in American productivity (combined with financial stability) is the dominant feature no matter the current account.
The counterpart of here, because exchange rates always ride on differential performance, is a continued poor supply side performance in Europe and Japan’s ongoing and pervasive economic distress.
There is a third reason why estimates of long run equilibrium with current account balance may be of little predictive value.
Do Europe and Japan really want to see the US achieve an external balance?
Europe and Japan, indeed the whole emerging economy world, are living off America’s trade deficits.
They keep the world growing!
Were there a risk to the continued funding of these deficits by the private sector, the ECB and the Bank of Japan would step in to buy all the dollars that their private sectors had shunned.
There is precedent for this: whenever the dollar weakens, foreign central banks are eager to help.
As John Connally, President Nixon’s Treasury Secretary of 30 years ago, said: “the dollar is our money and their problem.”
The chance of seeing exchange rates near the IMF values any time soon is slim.
Yes, the euro can tend toward dollar parity.
But it is also plausible that lack of support for the euro and the ongoing US miracle will see the euro sink to exceptionally low levels of near .80 and even less.
For the time being, investors will continue to think of the euro as a problem just as the ECB does.
The euro IPO crashed because it came at a time when the US economy was flying high.
The European product is going to make it; it will have its day in the sun.
But right now?
It has no chance to shine.
A More Perfect Monetary Union
WARSAW – The eurozone is often considered an experiment – a monetary union without political unification.
Those who make this claim seem to have in mind a model of a single state, which possesses two relevant features: limited fiscal sovereignty for regional and local governments and a substantial common budget from which regions hit by asymmetric shocks can receive transfers.
Those who claim that “political union” is necessary for the eurozone appear to focus on the second feature, despite the fact that fiscal constraints on local governments are clearly a typical and important component of single states.
In this sense, they ignore the fact that the European Union’s Stability and Growth Pact has been in principle an important component of political union, not its substitute.
Indeed, the eurozone’s current fiscal problems do not result from the lack of a large common budget, but from weak enforcement of the Pact.
More fundamentally, monetary unions – in a broader sense – have existed not only within single states, but also in groups of sovereign states, the gold standard being the most notable example in history.
The experience of such monetary unions offers two lessons.
First, they required fiscal discipline in the member states, which was true under the gold standard, with its informal norm of balanced budgets.
Second, they existed without any fiscal transfers from a common center, because such a center did not exist.
Instead, a great deal of flexibility, including within their labor markets, facilitated adjustment to asymmetric shocks.
It is clear that there is no scope in the foreseeable future to extend the EU budget in order to increase fiscal transfers to eurozone members affected by sharp declines in consumption.
This would require an enhanced level of European identity, something which the Union’s political elites cannot generate artificially. &#160;But the crucial point is not that a large common budget in the eurozone is politically impossible to achieve, but rather that it would not address the main problem: the weakness of the mechanisms safeguarding fiscal discipline in the member states.
Instead of looking at the wrong model – that of a single state – the EU and its member states should focus on the conditions required for the proper functioning of a currency union that has no common budget to compensate for asymmetric shocks.
First, utmost priority should be given to strengthening the mechanisms aimed at preventing pro-cyclical policies and large fiscal shocks.
This requires ensuring the credibility and transparency of the accounting rules that define budget deficits and public debt, with closer monitoring also focusing on the development of asset bubbles, which cause deep recessions – and thus sharp increases in budget deficits – when they burst.
Likewise, the European Central Bank’s monetary policy should “lean against the wind” by paying more attention to the development of asset bubbles.
As the ECB’s common monetary policy cannot fit the macroeconomic conditions of all the member countries, the eurozone countries need macro-prudential regulations that aim at reducing excessive credit growth.
Meanwhile, the Stability and Growth Pact should be strictly enforced, which implies using and strengthening the available sanctions.
To be sure, initiatives at the EU and/or eurozone level cannot substitute for stronger mechanisms of discipline in the member states, which are ultimately the responsibility of national politicians and publics.
But EU-wide measures aimed at ensuring discipline are necessary to spur the growth of preventive mechanisms in the member states, and such initiatives are largely dependent on the large countries, which thus bear a special responsibility for the developments within the eurozone – and within the EU.
Second, beyond strengthening economic institutions, EU countries must accelerate structural reforms to boost their long-run growth prospects and facilitate their smooth adjustment to shocks.
The former are necessary to help Union members grow out of their increased public debt, while the latter would help them to address unemployment.
Of the many necessary measures in this area, the most important include a vigorous effort to complete the Single Market, coupled with avoidance of economic nationalism at all costs.
Moreover, the Lisbon Agenda should be reinvigorated, with a focus on market reforms, and the EU should urgently reconsider measures – particularly regarding climate policy and the drift toward an EU-wide social policy – that risk imposing additional burdens on their economies and/or hamper the flexibility of markets.
In this respect, the mode of fiscal reforms is fundamentally important.
As EU members already have large tax burdens, further tax increases would weaken the forces of growth.
Thus, fiscal reform should focus on reducing the growth of spending commitments, which –given the aging of EU societies – must include raising the retirement age.
Finally, rigid labor markets and, more generally, regulatory constraints on prices and on the supply response of the economy, deepen recessionary reactions to various shocks, and contribute to the growth of unemployment.
Therefore, labor-market liberalization should be a high priority and another area of focus for the reinvigorated Lisbon Agenda.
European elites are fond of exclamations about “European solidarity,” “social cohesion,” and the “European social model.”
But no amount of lofty rhetoric can substitute for the reforms outlined here – or obviate the need for them.
Hardening Brazil’s Soft Power
BRASILIA – It is, perhaps, a truism for Brazil’s citizens that their country is and always will be a peaceful one.
After all, Brazil has lived with its ten neighbors without conflict for almost 150 years, having settled its borders through negotiation.
It last went to war in 1942, after direct aggression by Nazi U-boats in the South Atlantic.
It has forsworn nuclear weapons, having signed a comprehensive nuclear-safeguards agreement with Argentina and the International Atomic Energy Agency.
Through the Common Market of the South (Mercosur) and the Union of South American Nations (Unasur), Brazil is helping to integrate the region politically, economically, socially, and culturally.
But is soft power enough for one of the world’s major emerging countries?
To be sure, Brazil’s peaceful foreign policy has served it well.
Brazil has used its stature to advance peace and cooperation in South America and beyond.
Its constructive stance derives from a worldview that accords pride of place to the values of democracy, social justice, economic development, and environmental protection.
Brazil’s unique approach to promoting these ideals is an important source of its soft power, reflected in the broad international support that placed Brazilians atop international institutions like the Food and Agriculture Organization and the World Trade Organization.
Yet no country can rely on soft power alone to defend its interests.
Indeed, in an unpredictable world, where old threats are compounded by new challenges, policymakers cannot disregard hard power.
By deterring threats to national sovereignty, military power supports peace; and, in Brazil’s case, it underpins our country’s constructive role in the pursuit of global stability.
That role is more necessary than ever.
Over the past two decades, unilateral actions in disregard of the UN Security Council’s primary responsibility in matters of war and peace have led to greater uncertainty and instability.
Likewise, little progress toward nuclear disarmament has been made, in disregard of the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty.
Brazil’s abundance of energy, food, water, and biodiversity increases its stake in a security environment characterized by rising competition for access to, or control of, natural resources.
In order to meet the challenges of this complex reality, Brazil’s peaceful foreign policy must be supported by a robust defense policy.
Brazil’s National Defense Strategy, updated in 2012, states that the modernization of the Armed Forces is intrinsically linked to national development.
Thus, it emphasizes the need to strengthen the domestic defense industry.
In accordance with the Strategy, Brazil is enhancing its conventional deterrence capabilities, including by building a nuclear-propelled submarine as part of a naval program commensurate with its responsibilities in the South Atlantic.
Brazil coordinates closely on defense matters with its neighbors, both bilaterally and through Unasur’s South American Defense Council, which aims to promote confidence-building, transparency, a joint regional defense industry, and, most important, a common defense identity.
One potential mechanism for advancing these objectives is a South American Defense College, now under consideration.
South America is becoming a region where war is unthinkable – what the political scientist Karl Deutsch once called a “security community.”
Having visited every South American country in my tenure as Defense Minister, I am convinced that, the most effective deterrent on the continent is cooperation.
At the same time, Brazil is pursuing increased bilateral defense cooperation with African partners.
With our neighbors on both shores of the South Atlantic, Brazil is working closely to strengthen the Zone of Peace and Cooperation of the South Atlantic (ZPCSA), which aims to keep the ocean free from rivalries foreign to it and from nuclear weapons.
Brazil is also reaching out to other emerging countries, such as its fellow BRICS (Brazil, Russia, India, China, and South Africa) and members of the IBSA Dialogue Forum (India, Brazil, and South Africa).
For example, Brazil conducts IBSAMAR, a regular trilateral naval exercise, with South Africa and India.
More broadly, we are exploring ways to cooperate in the joint development of defense technologies.
Through such endeavors, Brazil hopes to contribute to a more balanced international order, one less subject to hegemonies of any kind, without losing sight of the importance of mutually beneficial partnerships with developed countries.
Even as Brazil hardens its soft power, it remains deeply committed to the path of dialogue, conflict prevention, and the negotiated settlement of disputes.
The presence of Brazilian peacekeepers in countries like Haiti and Lebanon underscores Brazil’s contribution to maintaining peace and security worldwide.
In the twenty-first century, a truly stable global order will depend on a legitimate and effective UN Security Council, one that reflects the plurality of the emerging multipolar world.
China Grows Down
HONG KONG – For more than three decades, China’s GDP has grown by an average of more than 10% annually.
But former Premier Wen Jiabao rightly described this impressive growth performance as “unstable, unbalanced, uncoordinated, and unsustainable,” highlighting the many economic, social, and environmental costs and challenges that have accompanied it.
Now China must choose between the export-based, investment-driven growth model of the past and a new, more viable economic order.
Cheap credit and perverse incentives – such as promotions for officials who contribute most to GDP growth – have led to massive but redundant investment, which, in turn, has contributed to excess capacity in manufacturing and infrastructure.
This model is not only inefficient; channeling government resources to support investment also undermines China’s social development.
Given this, China’s leaders have decided to stop using GDP growth as the primary criterion for evaluating officials’ performance.
Indeed, the 12th Five-Year Plan, which extends until 2015, aims to shift China’s economy to a new, more sustainable growth model based on quality and innovation, and accepts that annual GDP growth will likely fall to 7% during the transition.
Most discussion of growth models nowadays is based on work by the Nobel laureate Robert Solow.
For Solow, GDP growth is determined by the factor inputs of land, labor, and capital, together with the economy’s total factor productivity (TFP, or the change in output not accounted for by changes in the volume of inputs, but by factors like technological innovation and institutional reform).
Since 1978, China, by implementing major reforms, has achieved three periods of high TFP growth, each lasting 5-7 years.
First, in the early 1980’s, following the introduction of the rural household-responsibility system, which boosted agricultural productivity and released a large amount of unskilled labor to work in the higher-productivity urban and industrial sectors, annual TFP growth accelerated to 3-4%.
The second such period followed Deng Xiaoping’s southern tour in 1992, during which he emphasized the need to shift to a market-based – albeit state-controlled – system by opening China’s economy to foreign direct investment and establishing special economic zones to help develop export-oriented industries.
This time, TFP growth soared to 5-6%, partly owing to the “catching up” process facilitated by China’s adoption of foreign technology and know-how.
Finally, after major reforms of state-owned enterprises (SOEs) and the tax system, China acceded to the World Trade Organization in 2001.
With the country fully integrated into global supply chains, TFP growth hit 4%, where it remained until 2007.
Since then, however, the TFP growth rate has fallen by almost half.
Indeed, China’s economy has experienced a significant – and ongoing – growth slowdown in the wake of the global economic crisis that erupted five years ago.
By 2012, human capital’s contribution to China’s GDP growth fell almost to zero, with fixed-capital accumulation accounting for roughly 60% of total growth.
Large-scale, debt-funded capital investments have raised the country’s credit/GDP ratio to nearly 200%, increasing the financial system’s vulnerability – a development reflected in the recent spike in interbank interest rates.
In order to achieve more balanced and sustainable GDP growth, China’s leaders must implement a set of deep, comprehensive, and long-lasting institutional reforms aimed at boosting TFP.
In particular, the reforms should be designed to facilitate China’s transition from its traditional supply-based growth model, which assumes that building hard infrastructure leads automatically to demand growth.
In fact, GDP growth may be slowing precisely because existing investment in manufacturing and infrastructure, undertaken largely by local governments and SOEs, does not match the pattern of domestic demand.
As a result, China now faces the problem of short-term excess capacity.
Improving the quality of GDP growth will depend on Chinese leaders’ willingness to enact market-oriented reforms.
Rather than directly driving investment, the state must emphasize its regulatory and enforcement functions, including setting and overseeing standards, building an effective property-rights infrastructure, and managing macroeconomic conditions.
At the same time, the state must improve the quality and delivery of education, health care, and security, while minimizing corruption and administrative abuses.
In short, China must shift its focus from meeting GDP growth targets to creating an environment that fosters innovation and competition, thereby enabling market forces to set prices and allocate resources more effectively.
The state would thus become an intermediary agent, facilitating the development of a sustainable economic order in which less is more – that is, a system in which less intervention creates more opportunities for creativity.
SOEs undoubtedly played an important role in China’s previous growth model, delivering the infrastructure and services that were deemed necessary for the global manufacturing supply chain to function.
But access to cheap credit from state-controlled banks creates an incentive for SOEs to generate surplus capacity, which increases systemic risk in the economy.
To correct China’s excess-capacity problem would require the relevant enterprises, whether SOEs or private firms, to exit the market.
Unless China’s leaders implement major structural reforms aimed at establishing a market-based growth model, they will be unable to avoid the “middle-income trap” that has prevented so many developing economies from attaining advanced-country status.
The deceleration in GDP growth that such reforms would cause would be more than offset by increased market dynamism and overall economic stability.
A Movable Financial Feast
LONDON – There was a time when league tables were to be found only on the sports pages of newspapers.
Now they are a global obsession.
There are school and university league tables, rankings of companies on profitability or corporate social responsibility, tables of happiness indicators by country, and tables that attempt to rank consumer brands by value.
There is even a league table of the world’s funniest jokes (I did not laugh much).
The financial world is also full of such rankings.
Investment bankers wait with bated breath for the merger and acquisition league tables, even though the link between a high ranking and profitability is somewhere between loose and non-existent.
Bank league tables have been with us for a while, and now tend to be based on capital strength, rather than asset volume, which is an improvement of sorts, but still not very meaningful.
There are also now several different league tables – which are generating considerable angst – that rank financial centers based largely on surveys of firms.
How badly the financial crisis damaged the reputation and performance of the major Western centers is a question increasingly asked in London, and to a lesser extent in New York. (Some Americans tend to think that the world will beat a path to their door, no matter how badly they are received when they arrive!)
So far, the message from the most recent tables is not too alarming for the incumbents.
A ranking prepared for the City Corporation in London shows New York and London still neck and neck at the top of the league.
The Banker magazine produces another, with New York on top and London a close second – though the distance between them and their pursuers is narrowing.
The scores in both London and New York for the quality and intensity of regulation, and the tax burden, have dropped.
Firms seem nervous about the future in both areas. 
The most striking change in the rankings is the rise of major Asian financial centers – and not just Hong Kong and Singapore, but also Shanghai, Beijing, and Shenzhen.
The Chinese have been explicitly promoting their financial centers, and the impact is beginning to be seen.
The World Economic Forum’s Financial Development Index – yet another league table to consider – shows Hong Kong and Singapore very close indeed to London, with China now ahead of Italy on the overall measure of financial sophistication.
Noodles are beating spaghetti.
Some of this is unsurprising.
As the world’s center of economic gravity shifts east, the balance of financial activity is bound to move with it.
On the principle that if something is inevitable, it is wise to welcome it, the appropriate response in London and New York is to find ways of collaborating with these new centers.
But the more important question for the traditional financial centers is whether international activity that can move really is moving.
That is far harder to judge.
There are anecdotes about individual hedge-fund managers moving to Geneva.
Every time a government, or a regulator, announces some new control, or a tightening of existing controls, there are threats from bankers that they will pack up and leave town, taking their Porsches and mistresses with them. 
These threats, which used to have a lot of political impact, are now much less effective.
Some politicians and commentators quickly say, “Good riddance.” Even the Bank of England has asked whether, given the cost of mopping up the mess caused by the latest crisis, it is worth playing host to a global financial market.
This is risky speculation.
However badly bankers have behaved – and some clearly deserve a decade or more in the sin bin – financial services are a crucial element of London’s economy.
If the financial sector declines, what will replace it in employment terms?
Airy talk about science and manufacturing as ladders out of recession (a favorite image of former British Prime Minister Gordon Brown) is just that – empty words.
There are few, if any, examples of high-cost post-industrial societies reviving their manufacturing sector on a large scale once it has declined.
London, in particular, has no inalienable right to be a global financial center.
The United Kingdom’s domestic market is, after all, much smaller than that of the United States.
Indeed, the location of financial activity has changed through the centuries.
If incumbency were a permanent advantage, Goldman Sachs’ global headquarters would be in Babylon.
There must be a tipping point at which some combination of higher taxation, more burdensome regulation, and a hostile political climate causes financial firms to relocate. 
There is a risk that Britain may now be approaching that point.
That is why the UK’s Financial Services Authority, and even the Confederation of British Industry, which speaks largely for non-financial firms concerned about access to credit, has begun to call for a truce between the authorities and financial markets.
The next two or three months will determine whether peace breaks out, and, if it does, whether it will endure.
As is always the case in peace negotiations, both sides must be willing to compromise.
Firms will need to show visible restraint when it comes to this year’s bonus round.
The British government will not tolerate another jamboree.
And governments on both sides of the Atlantic will need to decide just how far they want to go in punishing banks.
Continued threats of ever-higher tax burdens could prove dangerously counterproductive.
If we fail to settle on a new social contract between the state and the markets soon, those markets may indeed move elsewhere.
A Murder in Moscow
It is time to end the fiction that Vladimir Putin’s “dictatorship of law” has made postcommunist Russia any less lawless.
The murder of Anna Politkovskaya, one of Russia’s bravest and best journalists, a woman who dared to expose the brutal murders committed by Russian troops in Chechnya, is final proof that President Putin has delivered nothing more than a run of the mill dictatorship with the usual contempt for law.
This recognition is a timely one for the world to make, particularly Europe.
Germany’s Foreign Ministry is preparing a policy on Russian/German relations that will enshrine indifference to Putin’s lawlessness as being in the national interest of the most powerful member of the European Union.
But indifference becomes appeasement when it encourages Putin to pursue his lawless ways in the international arena, as in his current campaign to strangle Georgia’s economy.
The killing of Politkovskaya has incited an eerie sense of déjà vu : just as in the KGB’s heyday, people simply disappear in Putin’s Russia.
Politkovskaya’s is the third politically tinged killing in three weeks.
Enver Ziganshin, the chief engineer of BP Russia, was shot to death in Irkutsk on September 30.
Andrei Kozlov, the deputy governor of Russia’s central bank who was leading a campaign against financial fraud, was assassinated on September 14.
The fact that Russia’s Prosecutor General Yuri Chaika, took over the investigation into Politkovskaya’s killing, as he did with the murder of Kozlov, doesn’t inspire hope, as such senior level involvement would in any real democracy.
In fact, the involvement of the highest level of Russia’s government is almost a guarantee that the killers will never be found.
Politkovskaya’s murder is a particularly grim augury when you consider that she was a powerful critic of Russia’s President.
In her articles for one of the few remaining independent papers in Moscow,
I am not accusing Putin’s government of the contract killing of Politkovskaya.
After all, as a campaigning investigative journalist she made many people angry besides Putin, not least of which is the current Chechen Prime Minister, Ramzan Kadyrov, whom she accused of a policy of kidnapping for ransom.
But even if Vladimir Putin’s associates had nothing to do with Politkovskaya being gunned down in an elevator of her apartment building in the center of Moscow, his contempt for law created the climate in which the murder was carried out.
Like the murder of Archbishop Thomas Beckett in his Canterbury Cathedral many centuries ago, the crime was committed in the clear belief that it would please the king.
Given what Politkovskaya represented—the responsibility of a democratic press to question the Kremlin and its policies—the government should have made certain that nothing bad happened to her.
Putin’s Russia has already lost 12 leading journalists to murder in the past six years.
None of those crimes has been solved, which would not be the case if Putin’s “dictatorship of law” was anything more than a PR strategy.
The six year period since Vladimir Putin arrived in the Kremlin has been a time of deeply conflicting signals.
On one hand, the world sees a young, educated leader pledging to modernize Russia, particularly in terms of bringing its law enforcement and judicial practices into line with international norms.
On the other, the president watches in silence while his ex-colleagues in Russia's FSB security service (the former KGB) provide no security to those murdered, and launch a series of notorious espionage cases against journalists, scientists, and environmental activists.
These “neo-spies” include journalist Gregory Pasko, arms control expert Igor Sutyagin, diplomat Valentin Moiseyev, physicist Valentin Danilov, and others.
The supposedly civilizing influence of being a Western partner — chairing a G-8 summit in Saint Petersburg for example — seems to have been lost on Putin’s Kremlin cabal.
Once again exposure to Western values has delivered another Potemkin Village; Russia presents a façade of laws and democratic institutions, but behind that cardboard surface the same arbitrary brutes rule.
The danger for the world is that Putin’s lawlessness is being exported.
Across Russia’s near abroad, a form of criminalized diplomacy is taking root.
Look at Putin’s attempt to rig Ukraine’s previous presidential election, and the on again off again criminal charges brought against the opposition leader Yuliya Tymoshenko.
Look at the rogue breakaway regions in Moldova and Georgia that exist only because of the Kremlin’s backing.
Look at how the Kremlin seeks to blackmail its neighbors by threatening their energy supplies.
Every policeman knows that when you ignore criminal behavior, criminals grow bolder.
It is past time for the world to recognize Vladimir Putin for what he is: a man who is taking Russia back into the shadows. So the world must now ponder that old Latin maxim
A Nation Kidnapped
The editorial published in the Colombian newspaper Diario del Sur on July 6 (“A Slap in the Face of Violence”) was ecstatic: “Never before, in spite of the violence that has oppressed us during so many years, has Colombia lived a day like yesterday: historic and unforgettable in every aspect.”
At noon on July 5, Colombians throughout the country poured into the streets to show their outrage at the news that 11 provincial politicians had been killed while being held by leftist rebels.
A human chain was formed, with participants wearing white tops.
My colleagues in the capital, Bogotá, and in the south of the country, where we have humanitarian projects, say that everyone was waving white scarves.
White balloons were launched everywhere.
Press agencies estimate that, with more than one million participants, this was the largest public protest since October 1999, which was also – sadly – a demonstration against violence and kidnappings.
But, while the killing of the 11 congressmen from Cali region – attributed to “crossfire’” during an attack by an “unidentified military group”the leftist rebels – provoked shock and anger, there was no agreement on how to solve the chronic problem of “El Secuestro” (The Kidnapping).
Some Colombians demand a “humanitarian accord” – an exchange of prisoners for hostages – and reject “blood and fire” rescue attempts.
Others oppose “ceding the territory” (setting up a demilitarized zone, where any such exchange could take place) and demand of the government “firmeza, siempre firmeza!” (to be “firm” and go after the rebels).
As is often the case in armed conflicts, civilians suffer the most.
The July 5 protest reminded us of the 3,000 kidnappings since the start of this four-decade conflict, but Colombians could form human chains and release white balloons for many other reasons.
Consider, for example, Colombia’s grim ranking as global leader in the number of victims injured by landmines.
According to “Landmine Monitor 2006,” Colombia had 1,110 victims last year, followed by Cambodia with 875 and Afghanistan with 848.
This unnoticed drama is emblematic of the under-reported Colombian conflict.
Indeed, if there were such a thing as a combined index of despair, Colombia would be an undisputed leader.
Hostage-taking, and killing and maiming by landmines, are but the side effects of the oldest and longest-running civil war in Latin America, which has resulted in three million internally displaced persons – one of the world’s highest levels, close to that of Sudan, Congo, and Iraq.
Even if there were, by some miracle, a negotiated end to the fighting, the scars left by this conflict will remain.
So, besides helping the country find a political solution, there is also a need to focus on long-term reconstruction and reconciliation, so that young lives distorted by the civil war can be righted and children can be rescued from the harmful influence of so much violence and bloodshed.
In Colombia’s south – where the heavy presence of illegal armed groups makes social peace a distant dream – I went to visit a secondary school, as part of a needs assessment.
After four hours on a dirt road, I reached a highlands hamlet.
The smart and friendly teenagers were eager to learn how to surf the Internet, just installed in their school.
But when I asked five of them what they would like to become, I understood that this conflict has marked them forever.
Their dream careers were: lawyer, criminal investigator, forensic physician, and soldier.
The fifth one wanted to become a chemist, so that he could set up a cocaine laboratory.
The teenagers’ plans simply reflect a sad reality: these pupils are the second generation that has not known anything but war.
On the day of the march against violence, next to the editorial in
It is perhaps a beginning.
A Nation of Vidiots
NEW YORK – The past half-century has been the age of electronic mass media.
Television has reshaped society in every corner of the world.
Now an explosion of new media devices is joining the TV set: DVDs, computers, game boxes, smart phones, and more. A growing body of evidence suggests that this media proliferation has countless ill effects.
The United States led the world into the television age, and the implications can be seen most directly in America’s long love affair with what Harlan Ellison memorably called “the glass teat.”
In 1950, fewer than 8% of American households owned a TV; by 1960, 90% had one.
That level of penetration took decades longer to achieve elsewhere, and the poorest countries are still not there.
True to form, Americans became the greatest TV watchers, which is probably still true today, even though the data are somewhat sketchy and incomplete.
The best evidence suggests that Americans watch more than five hours per day of television on average – a staggering amount, given that several hours more are spent in front of other video-streaming devices.
Other countries log far fewer viewing hours. In Scandinavia, for example, time spent watching TV is roughly half the US average.
The consequences for American society are profound, troubling, and a warning to the world – though it probably comes far too late to be heeded.
First, heavy TV viewing brings little pleasure.
Many surveys show that it is almost like an addiction, with a short-term benefit leading to long-term unhappiness and remorse. Such viewers say that they would prefer to watch less than they do.
Moreover, heavy TV viewing has contributed to social fragmentation.
Time that used to be spent together in the community is now spent alone in front of the screen.
Robert Putnam, the leading scholar of America’s declining sense of community, has found that TV viewing is the central explanation of the decline of “social capital,” the trust that binds communities together.
Americans simply trust each other less than they did a generation ago.
Of course, many other factors are at work, but television-driven social atomization should not be understated.
Certainly, heavy TV viewing is bad for one’s physical and mental health.
Americans lead the world in obesity, with roughly two-thirds of the US population now overweight.
Again, many factors underlie this, including a diet of cheap, unhealthy fried foods, but the sedentary time spent in front of the TV is an important influence as well.
At the same time, what happens mentally is as important as what happens physically.
Television and related media have been the greatest purveyors and conveyors of corporate and political propaganda in society.
America’s TV ownership is almost entirely in private hands, and owners make much of their money through relentless advertising.
Effective advertising campaigns, appealing to unconscious urges – typically related to food, sex, and status – create cravings for products and purchases that have little real value for consumers or society.
The same, of course, has happened to politics.
American politicians are now brand names, packaged like breakfast cereal.
Anybody – and any idea – can be sold with a bright ribbon and a catchy jingle.
All roads to power in America lead through TV, and all access to TV depends on big money.
This simple logic has put American politics in the hands of the rich as never before.
Even war can be rolled out as a new product.
The Bush administration promoted the premises of the Iraq war – Saddam Hussein’s non-existent weapons of mass destruction –in the familiar colorful, fast-paced, and graphics-heavy style of television advertising.
Then the war itself began with the so-called “shock and awe” bombing of Baghdad – a made-for-TV live spectacle aimed at ensuring high ratings for the US-led invasion.
Many neuroscientists believe that the mental-health effects of TV viewing might run even deeper than addiction, consumerism, loss of social trust, and political propaganda.
Perhaps TV is rewiring heavy viewers’ brains and impairing their cognitive capacities.
The American Academy of Pediatrics recently warned that TV viewing by young children is dangerous for their brain development, and called on parents to keep children under two away from the TV and similar media.
A recent survey in the US by the organization Common Sense Media reveals a paradox, but one that is perfectly understandable.
Children in poor American households today not only watch more TV than children in wealthy households, but are also more likely to have a television in their room.
When a commodity’s consumption falls as income rises, economists call it an “inferior” good.
To be sure, the mass media can be useful as a provider of information, education, entertainment, and even political awareness.
But too much of it is confronting us with dangers that we need to avoid.
At the very least, we can minimize those dangers.
Successful approaches around the world include limits on TV advertising, especially to young children; non-commercial, publicly-owned TV networks like the BBC; and free (but limited) TV time for political campaigns.
Of course, the best defense is our own self-control.
We can all leave the TV off more hours per day and spend that time reading, talking with each other, and rebuilding the bases of personal health and social trust.
A Neighborly Option for Iran
YEREVAN – Once again, the issue of bombing or sanctioning Iran has resurfaced.
For years, debate about Iran has oscillated between two bad alternatives.
Some are convinced that a nuclear Iran is the worst of all possible scenarios, worse even than the fall-out from a pre-emptive strike.
But neither a nuclear-armed Iran nor air strikes against it are wise options, certainly not for this region. 
The repercussions of bombing Iran should be clear: closure of the Straits of Hormuz, skyrocketing oil prices, possible retaliation against Israel (regardless of the origin of the attack), and even greater turmoil in Iraq and Afghanistan.
Indeed, the only certainty of any pre-emptive strike is irreparable and long-lasting damage to regional security and political and economic stability.
Of course, the alternative is no safer.
A nuclear-armed Iran would change the entire region’s security environment, and, given the enmity between Israel and Iran, two such nuclear powers facing off against each other would pose a threat.
The way out of this dilemma is to understand what Iran wants – and how to accommodate it without jeopardizing anyone’s security.
Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad has said that Iran wants to develop uranium enrichment technology for industrial use.
Everyone agrees that Iran has the right to do so.
But the world is split over whether to believe that Iran is actually doing what it says.
If as some argue Iran is being disingenuous, then once it achieves this first phase – uranium enrichment for industrial purposes – it can easily slide into weapons-grade enrichment, leaving the international community out in the cold, with no channels of communication, no observation teams in place, and no monitors ready to sound the whistle.
That is why the world must not remain focused on the already-lost first phase.
Iran has more than 3,000 centrifuges despite all the international sanctions and threats.
Instead, the world must focus on the second phase, because it is weapons potential that is the looming danger, and it is here that internationally mandated mechanisms for oversight and supervision exist.
The Iranians have always said that they will continue to honor their commitments and open their doors to observation as members of the non-proliferation community.
But the international community must be more respectful of Iran’s current industrial aims if it wants Iranian cooperation.
The first step is to assuage Iran’s feeling of being besieged.
Fortunately, there are voices in America and elsewhere that advocate engaging Iran at the highest level.
But, to talk with Iran effectively, one must understand Iranian values and thinking.
Iranians have a sense of seniority, if not superiority, born of a rich and ancient culture that has survived into modern times.
But they also have a historically ingrained sense of insecurity, owing to frequent conquest and domination, which is being aggravated today by the presence of American troops to their west in Iraq and to their east in Afghanistan.
Their outlook nowadays is the product of these two worldviews – suspicious of others’ motives and proud of themselves as smart, tough negotiators and not without their own resources.
In my meetings with the current and past leaders of Syria and Iran, as well as in my meeting with Saddam Hussein, I heard them all say the same thing: the West is out to get them.
Their explanation was that the West is uncomfortable with the motives and behavior of ideological states – Syria, Iran, and Iraq under Saddam were states with causes – Islam, Arab unity, or anti-Zionism.
For Iranians, as bearers of faith and national pride, responses that seem to others self-righteous and irrational are, in fact, necessary and acceptable.
The case of Saddam’s weapons of mass destruction is a historic example of a willingness to go to hell with your head held high.
Saddam knew that he didn’t have weapons of mass destruction, but he was unwilling to concede the right of inspectors to ask. 
As in North Korea, Iran’s neighbors might provide the right mechanism to create a more transparent relationship between Iran and the world.
In the so-called “six-party talks,” North Korea’s neighbors offered tangible incentives to Kim Jong-il’s regime to abandon its nuclear program.  The most prominent of these was an end to North Korea’s economic isolation.
Iran, too, feels besieged, though it is not isolated: it depends heavily on trade, and not just as a seller of oil.
Two-thirds of its population is under the age of 30, and unemployment is high; it needs to attract foreign investment for its oil and gas industry, and to finance road construction and other infrastructure projects.
Comparisons with neighboring Turkey are instructive.
Before Iran’s Islamic revolution, it led Turkey in foreign direct investment, income per head, and GDP growth.
Now Turkey has moved ahead, and may even join the European Union.
Other regional comparisons further reinforce that trend.
The Qataris have outstripped them in exploiting the huge gas field they share.
Tiny Dubai draws in far more foreign investment: Iranians go there for banking, trade, and fun.
Iran’s neighbors need to convince Iran’s rulers that Iranians, too, can participate in the region’s growth, and even become regional leaders.
Only an open Iran, fully integrated into the regional economy and granted a role commensurate to its size and economic potential, will be able to moderate its siege mentality.
Here, a vital step would be for the West to begin to envisage Iran as a potential alternative supplier of gas, by offering to link Iran to the proposed White Stream and Nabucco pipelines that are currently under development to bring Central Asian gas to Europe.
The world’s judgments about Iran’s motives and actions should not be distorted by Iranian pride.
We can only understand Iran’s real intentions by engaging the Iranians – not cornering them.
A New Anti-Semitism
These are violent times.
Some believe that we are experiencing a new kind of conflict: “culture wars,” such as those between Sunni and Shiite Muslims or tribal groups in Africa and Asia, or indeed Islamists and Westerners.
However, the deeper reasons for some of these conflicts may well be more traditional.
Belonging to a particular cultural group is merely a pretext for battles between the winners and losers of globalization.
Ruthless leaders mobilize disoriented followers.
Particularly the losers, often represented by young men with no future to look forward to, can be induced to take even suicidal action against the alleged enemy.
Perhaps one should not be surprised that at such a time, the oldest of our ugly ­– indeed, deadly – resentments, anti-Semitism, is re-emerging from the shadows.
Its comeback takes the classical form of attacks on individuals, like the recent killing of a young Jew in France, or of disfiguring symbolic places, like cemeteries and synagogues.
But there is also a more general sense of hostility to all things Jewish.
One would have thought that anti-Semitism died forever with the Holocaust; but it did not.
There are those who deny that the Holocaust ever took place, or that it did in its all-too-well-documented manner.
The deniers range from second-rate historians like David Irving to apparently popular politicians like Iran’s recently elected president, Mahmoud Ahmadinejad.
The evidence of what Nazi Germany did is so powerful that those who deny it can probably be dealt with even without putting them in prison and thereby drawing more attention to them than they deserve.
The more worrisome source of anti-Semitism is different and justifies speaking of a new anti-Semitism.
It has to do with Israel.
To be sure, America is the first name in anti-Western resentment. But its second name is Israel, the only successful modern country in the Middle East, which is also highly militarized, an occupying power, and ruthless in defense of its interests.
It is difficult to exaggerate the strange sentiment in the West which one might call Palestine romanticism.
Intellectuals like the late Edward Said gave voice to it, but it has many followers in the United States and Europe.
Palestine romanticism glorifies the Palestinians as the victims of Israel’s rule, points to the treatment of Israeli Palestinians as at best second-class citizens, and cites the many incidents of oppression in the occupied territories, including the effects of Israel’s “security fence.”
Implicitly or explicitly, people take the side of the victims, contribute by sending money to them, declare even suicide bombers legitimate, and move ever further away from support for and defense of Israel.
Of course, it is true that in theory one can oppose Israel’s policies without being anti-Semitic.
After all, there are enough critics of Israel’s policies among Israelis.
Yet the distinction has become more and more difficult to maintain.
Jews outside Israel feel that they have to defend – right or wrong – the country that, after all, is their ultimate hope of security.
This makes their friends hesitate to speak up for fear of being painted into not just an anti-Israel, but also an anti-Semitic corner.
The defensiveness of Jews and the uneasy silence of their friends mean that the stage of public debate is open for those who actually are anti-Semitic, though they confine themselves to anti-Israel language.
Anti-Semitism is disgusting in whatever form it arises.
This is true also for other kinds of group hatred, but the Holocaust makes anti-Semitism unique, because it is an emotion complicit in the near annihilation of an entire people.
The new anti-Semitism, however, cannot be fought successfully by education and argument in the rest of the world alone.
It is linked to Israel.
If one belongs to a generation that regarded Israel as one of the great achievements of the twentieth century, and admired the way in which the country provided a proud home for the persecuted and downtrodden, one is particularly concerned that it may now be at risk.
A New Approach to North Korea
SEOUL – The long-delayed meeting of North Korea’s ruling Worker’s Party is now underway, and comes at a time of severe tension between North Korea and the international community.
It is widely expected that Kim Jong-il’s third son, Kim Jong-eun, will be appointed to a key position and be publicly announced as his father’s successor.
There are also hints that a reshuffling of important positions within the Party will take place, allowing the presumed heir to form a new power base.
Whatever happens, and whoever turns out to be the new leader, North Korea most likely faces an unstable future.
The cost of maintaining internal order will continue to rise as the system’s fundamental defects force the new leader to confront stark new challenges.
Moreover, responsibility for managing that potential instability extends far beyond the leadership in Pyongyang.
North Korea’s fragility is suggested by the fact that even such an important political event as the Worker’s Party conference, held for the first time in three decades, was abruptly postponed earlier in September.
One cause for the delay could be a schism within the ruling elite, a group that “Dear Leader” Kim Jong-il himself cannot control as effectively as before.
Moreover, Kim’s health problems might have worsened much faster than outsiders guess, further complicating matters.
“Enough is enough,” a mid-level North Korean government official recently uttered in a private conversation with a South Korean visitor to Pyongyang regarding Kim Jong-eun’s likely succession.
Ordinary North Koreans, too, evidently seem to view this succession differently from that of Kim Jong-il’s inheritance of power from his father, Kim Il-sung.
Moreover, there is no hope that any new leader, whoever it may be, will get any breathing space to establish unquestioned control, given the economy’s utter state of decay, as last year’s failed bid to reform the currency demonstrated.
The regime is under growing pressure from those at the bottom of North Korean society, and recognizes its own inability to handle the situation.
For example, for the first time, North Korea’s prime minister publicly apologized for a policy error – the failure of the currency redenomination.
For the dynamics of the relationship between North Korea’s people and its rulers seems to be changing fundamentally.
One troubling aspect of this change is that the new leader may feel the need to resort to brute force more frequently in order to suppress popular resistance.
And, at a time of domestic hardship and diplomatic isolation, North Korea’s leaders, their confidence boosted by their possession of nuclear weapons, might try to distract their public through audacious, and possibly destructive, acts abroad.
The attack on the South Korean naval ship Cheonan earlier this year may be a grim sign of things to come.
Indeed, the North Korean threat nowadays derives more from the regime’s internal weaknesses than from its aggressive external posture – the latter being the authorities’ fearful response to the former.
Unfortunately, however, most international efforts have sought to ameliorate the symptoms rather than cure the underlying disease.
Of course, in order to pressure North Korea’s government to give up its nuclear option, the current international economic sanctions, which target WMD-related products and luxury goods, probably should continue.
But, at the same time, the international community should place greater emphasis on policies aimed at inducing North Korea to launch serious economic reform.
At a time of increased tension between North Korea, South Korea, and the United States such a policy may seem impossible to undertake.
Yet a road map for a peaceful transition can be designed.
If, say, North Korea is willing to respect international standards of economic behavior, it could be invited to join the International Monetary Fund.
Western governments also could permit charitable foundations to provide North Korean officials or students with scholarships to study abroad and learn how to run a market economy.
Of course, any assistance to North Korea would have to be monitored closely to prevent it from being diverted for military or other political purposes.
The international community would lose nothing by trying this approach and testing the regime’s will to reform.
In fact, following the recent currency fiasco, North Korean leaders may have become more open to economic reform than ever before.
Such an approach is also compatible with Chinese policy, which has been to pressure North Korea to adopt its model of economic reform.
To be sure, North Korea’s regime is not the only obstacle to international engagement.
Conservatives in both the United States and South Korea may argue that North Korea must first move toward denuclearization before any kind of economic assistance is offered.
But there is no reason why international efforts to ensure North Korea’s denuclearization must preclude policies aimed at bringing about domestic reform.
We need not assume that these goals cannot be pursued simultaneously.
On the contrary, it may be impossible to win North Korea’s assent to denuclearization in the absence of far-reaching domestic change.  
The past two decades have shown that “politically correct” decisions do not produce the “right” results, even in the long run.
As North Korea grooms a new leader, the world needs to groom a new policy for North Korea.
A New Bargain for UN Reform
The United Nations is torn apart by internal tensions.
No sooner was the controversy over the creation of a Human Rights Council satisfactorily resolved than a new battle has erupted.
The United States is pressing for administrative reforms and threatening to cut off funding if the reforms are not forthcoming.
The Secretary General has submitted a reasonable reform plan, but a majority of UN member states, acting together as the so-called G-77, are balking, because they regard it as another step in reducing the authority of the General Assembly relative to the Security Council.
In particular, they object to the plan’s proposal to give increased powers and responsibilities to the Secretary General, whose selection is effectively in the hands of the Security Council’s five permanent members, which wield veto power.
Many UN members, believing that power within the UN has been shifting from the General Assembly, resist giving up what they regard as its last vestige: control over the budget through the work of the Assembly’s Fifth Committee.
In practice, the Fifth Committee has exercised the kind of micro-management over personnel and expenditure that ought to be exercised by the Secretary General if the UN is to operate effectively and to have a staff which is up to the challenges facing the organization.
This is the basis of America’s insistence on administrative reforms.
There is an urgent need to find a way out of this impasse.
Failure of the current proposal would mean an effective end to all efforts to reform the UN, with disastrous consequences for people across the world who depend on the aid provided by the UN Development Program, the security provided by the UN’s numerous peacekeeping operations, or the myriad other services rendered by UN agencies.
For example, failure of management reform would fuel demands by the US Congress to withhold America’s contributions to the UN budget – a policy that would greatly undermine America’s own interests, such as the planned expansion of the mission to stop genocide in Darfur.
The path to a satisfactory resolution is clear: give the General Assembly a greater role in the selection of the Secretary General so that members would be delegating powers to an authority of their own choosing.
This solution would not only permit the much-needed administrative reforms to be implemented; it would also bring clarity and transparency to a process that is in great need of improvement.
After all, the UN Charter provides that “the Secretary-General shall be appointed by the General Assembly upon the recommendation of the Security Council.” The original concept was that the two bodies would reach a consensus on a candidate.
In practice, however, the five permanent members now agree on a candidate, and their decision is rubber-stamped first by the Security Council and then by the General Assembly.
Real discussions about a new Secretary General are currently being conducted in secrecy among the permanent five, adding to the frustration of other UN members, including large powers that have been seeking without success to enlarge the Security Council.
To achieve the reforms of the budget process that it wants, the US will need to lead the way in persuading the other permanent members of the Council to give the General Assembly a greater role in the process.
This might be done in several ways.
The Security Council might agree to recommend several candidates from which the General Assembly would select one.
Alternatively, the General Assembly might propose several candidates to the Security Council, from which the Council would choose one to refer back to the Assembly for approval.
Either way, the selection process would benefit from greater transparency.
For example, the General Assembly should hold public hearings in which candidates are interviewed, thereby greatly enhancing the stature of the candidate who is eventually selected.
Such proposals, if accepted, would help resolve the current dispute to everyone’s satisfaction.
Indeed, they could make the UN stronger than it has ever been.
A New Chance for Darfur
NEW BRUNSWICK, NEW JERSEY – As the crisis in Sudan’s Darfur region worsens and negotiaitions to end it drag on, an international consensus is emerging around a “muscular” policy based on public denunciation, severe economic sanctions, and, increasingly, threats of military force.
But none of these steps, taken alone or together, can bring about the ends that their often well-intentioned advocates seek.
On the contrary, they risk reproducing the havoc that such measures have unleashed in Iraq and elsewhere in recent years.
In the United States, cautionary voices have been notably absent even among staunchly liberal newspapers like The New York Times .
Foreign policy advisers to the Democratic Party and neo-conservatives alike have called for “action” against Sudan – demands that have been echoed by an international group of intellectuals and celebrities ranging from Umberto Eco, Jürgen Habermas, and Harold Pinter to Bob Geldof, George Clooney, Mia Farrow, Matt Damon, Mick Jagger, and J.K. Rowling.
Meanwhile, French troops, with the support of other European Union members – notably Austria, Belgium, Ireland, Poland, Romania, and Sweden – are now deployed for putatively humanitarian reasons in the Central African Republic and Chad, where they have already clashed with Sudanese government forces.
The International Crisis Group, Human Rights Watch, and many other organizations support this deployment, while Save Darfur, despite describing itself as a non-political “alliance of more than 180 faith-based, advocacy, and humanitarian organizations,” has, in fact, been pivotal in setting the policy agenda.
This agenda’s interventionism is incremental: tougher economic sanctions, demands that China exercise its influence, creation of a “no-fly zone,” and military force against the Sudanese army.
The assumption is that only real pressure will finally force Sudan’s government to embrace the United Nations-African Union peacekeeping force, negotiate with the West, disband the feared Janjaweed militia, allow refugees from the country’s brutal civil war to return to their villages, and make peace with Southern rebels.
But realizing these aims requires cooperation from the government in Khartoum, whereas each of the proposed measures would only heighten tensions or prove useless.
Existing Western sanctions, for example, have merely driven the Sudanese regime into the arms of China, Indonesia, and Malaysia.
Indeed, investment in Sudan has actually grown $2.8 billion over the last year.
Efforts to “pressure” the Chinese appear similarly futile.
Darfur is hardly a high priority for China, which accounts for 20% of African trade, and buys 60% of Sudan’s oil.
Growing talk – both in Europe and America – about boycotting the Olympics (or the opening ceremony) has proven utterly ineffective in influencing China’s behavior in Tibet.
Would the threat of a boycott really prove more successful vis-à-vis Darfur?
Likewise, even proponents of a no-fly zone are doubtful about its potential efficacy.
After all, Sudan is the size of Western Europe, and Darfur is the size of France, with 158 refugee camps.
Strategic constraints would almost certainly overwhelm enforcement.
Finally, there is the “military option,” which would merely justify fears in Sudan of Western “imperialism.”
Worse, given the splintering of rebel forces in the South, where an estimated 80 tribes and clans control their own militias, a military response could generate a power vacuum in Sudan and destabilize the nine countries – many of them fragile or failed states – on its borders.
Western analysts and activists should have learned by now that and military threats produce only resistance, and that genuine diplomacy involves using carrots as well as sticks.
Yet the emerging policy consensus contains no positive incentives to resolve the Darfur crisis.
Nor is it clear whether its aim is to pressure Sudan into changing its policy or to bring about wholesale regime change.
I have been to Sudan twice, and, as part of a delegation organized by Conscience International, I also visited the refugee camps in Nyala and El Fasher in Darfur.
I have met with dozens of Sudanese politicians and diplomats, and I know that the regime in Khartoum is authoritarian, self-interested, and ruthless.
But it is not monolithic.
Factions within the regime might prove supportive of new policies aimed at tempering the climate of violence in Sudan, decreasing its trade dependency on China, improving conditions for refugees, and lowering international tensions.
Such policies might include:
Normalizing diplomatic relations in exchange for removing obstacles to the deployment of UN-AU forces in Darfur. Replacing sanctions on Sudan with new investment opportunities and gradually forgiving its foreign debt in exchange for achievement of benchmarks tied to repatriating refugees, rebuilding villages, and demobilizing the Janjaweed ; Calling on not only the government, but also the rebel forces, over which the West has some influence, to bargain in good faith; Engaging China’s desire for international prestige by encouraging it to assume a public role in designing and overseeing repatriation, demobilization, and vocational programs; Offering aid to the Sudanese in rebuilding the tribal reconciliation councils that were destroyed during the civil war; Reintegrating Sudan into the international community through academic exchanges, conferences, political visits, and the like; Strengthening the AU, which Western analysts have consistently underestimated with almost indescribable arrogance, in order to foster African solutions to African problems. The emerging policy consensus toward Sudan is predicated on an approach that has already undermined respect for Western values throughout the non-Western world.
Its interventionist measures won’t work.
They are unrealistic and, ultimately, counterproductive.
There is no time to lose in trying something new.
A New Dawn for Chinese Journalism?
A remarkable incident has emboldened Chinese journalists.
Earlier this year, the government suspended publication of the newspaper Bing Dian Weekly , provoking unprecedented open protest, which received extensive media coverage worldwide.
Even more surprisingly, the government, under the pressure of public opinion, has allowed Bing Dian to resume publication.
The editor-in-chief and deputy editor-in-chief were sacked, but the open questioning of the legitimacy of the government’s authority to regulate journalism is bound to have a profound impact.
Foreign observers are prone to associate the Bing Dian incident with other recent crackdowns on China’s mass media, and to conclude that Chinese journalism freedom is hopeless under the present autocratic regulation.
Undeniably, there has been no significant change in the government’s system of journalism’s regulation since China adopted its “open door” policy almost 30 years ago.
On the contrary, it has become more rigorous and covert.
But I still have faith that subtle changes are occurring.
A prerequisite of effective control of the media is that the controlled accept the controller’s ideology.
After 1949, the Communist Party cultivated a stable of “theoretical experts” and other ideological servants to write lengthy articles propagating “Marxism and Mao Zedong Thought.”
But nowadays, such writers are hard to find, and their work is received by readers with mockery and sarcasm.
In fact, the Central Propaganda Department’s ideological control can be maintained only through internal notices and telephone calls, which are widely scorned.
More importantly, even the regulators themselves have ceased to believe in obsolete and rigid doctrines.
I recently met an official working for a provincial Department of Propaganda and was impressed by his bold and straightforward comments on current affairs.
In private conversation, one might even take him for a liberal – one of a new breed of young and well-educated propaganda officials with an increasingly higher threshold of political sensitivity.
For their part, producers of news have long since ceased to believe that news is propaganda.
I started my career with
Indeed, Western works are taught as “models for writing” to journalism students in China’s universities.
This is a crucial change, and it is the fundamental reason for an increasing number of genuine news items and commentaries in China’s media today.
Market pressure has also been important in pushing Chinese media to embrace change.
Contrary to foreign perceptions, only a handful of Chinese media – for example,
To be sure, political information remains rigorously controlled, which puts a premium on “harmless” recreational, entertainment, and sports information – the reporting of which is basically free.
This has resulted, in the short run, in an embrace of low journalistic standards.
But many metropolitan newspapers that once thrived on infotainment have seen their circulation fall in recent years.
Sooner or later, readers will start to buy newspapers that can truly inform them and give voice to their opinions.
In fact, it is these tabloids, responding to market pressure, that have started to take on responsibility as public watchdogs.
On many occasions in recent years, they have been the first to break sensitive news.
As a result, mainstream media are being marginalized, and the previously marginalized media are becoming mainstream.
Thus, even without any change in the current system of regulation, extensive coverage of disasters, judicial abuses, and citizens’ pursuit of their statutory rights, along with the questioning of policies from public perspectives, is now common.
For example, reporting by the
Such progress is slow and full of frustrations, for it reflects the incremental evolution of the system.
But it is nonetheless real progress, indicating the growing influence of the Chinese media and pointing to China’s becoming a country of “free expression”.
According to an old Chinese saying, “a just cause enjoys abundant support, while an unjust cause finds scant support.” A “just cause” resides in people’s hearts.
Without the hearts of news producers – or, increasingly, of censors – the seemingly formidable edifice of journalistic regulation will, sooner or later, collapse like the Berlin Wall.
A New Deal for Fragile States
PARIS – Today, roughly one-quarter of the world’s population lives in conflict-affected and fragile states.
Despite vast sums of money spent aiding such states over the last 50 years, armed conflict and violence continue to blight the lives of millions of people around the world.
International and national partners must radically change the way they engage such states.
I experienced firsthand the need for a new approach in 2004 in Sri Lanka.
Within the first two months of the devastating tsunami that struck that December, close to 50 heads of state and foreign ministers visited the island.
Each came with their own programs, their own civil-society organizations, and their own television crews.
Few came with any deep understanding of the dynamics of the political conflict between militant Tamils and the Sri Lankan state.
Big mistakes were made, fueling further violence.
Our major challenge today is to move away from the model of partnership according to which priorities, policies, and funding needs are determined in donor capitals and development partners’ headquarters.
Conflict-affected states need to be able to determine their own destinies.
We should establish models of post-conflict transition like the one advocated by the g7+, a group of eighteen fragile states.
The model is simple: Countries assess their own situation, using tools that they develop and that are appropriate to the context, in order to formulate a vision and a plan to consolidate peace and achieve prosperity.
This may sound like pie in the sky, but we have already tasted it in Africa, where Sierra Leone’s Agenda for Prosperity 2013-2017 and the Liberia Vision 2030 exemplify the potential of such programs.
Progress on meeting national priorities such as peace consolidation, expanding access to justice, or increasing security is monitored locally.
Using local systems and capacities, it turns out, can strengthen them.
The “New Deal for Engagement in Fragile States,” which builds on a series of international commitments regarding aid and development, and was endorsed at the at the Fourth High-Level Forum on Aid Effectiveness in Busan, South Korea in 2011, proposes just such a model.
It enshrines what matters most in building peaceful states and societies: commitments – the Peace- and State-building Goals – to improve how national and international partners engage in conflict-affected and fragile contexts.
The New Deal recognizes what the history of peace-building teaches us: national leadership and ownership of agendas are key to achieving visible and sustainable results.
As Kosti Manibe Ngai, South Sudan’s finance minister, has put it, “Nothing about us without us.”
In many conversations with South Sudan’s president, Salva Kiir, we have discussed setting out a short list of clear priorities for the new state.
But such goals are meaningful only if a fragile state’s partners are ready to accept the lead from a capital like Juba rather than from their own headquarters.
More than 40 countries and institutions have endorsed the New Deal way of working, committing themselves to building better partnerships – and to investing the required resources and political capital.
This is why the New Deal model is innovative; it creates political support around issues that need to be addressed if countries are to make the transition from conflict and fragility to peace and stability.
Supporting inclusive political dialogue and ensuring that conflict is resolved through peaceful means are the highest priorities, as are security, access to justice, and a dynamic private sector that generates sufficient job opportunities.
Moreover, many fragile states are rich in natural resources, and must establish transparent resource management – aimed at curbing corruption and controlling illicit flows of money and goods – in order to raise the revenues needed to deliver services.
A focus on these processes would ensure that fragile states take the lead and the responsibility.
As partners, we must accept this national leadership.
After Haiti’s catastrophic earthquake in 2010, the country was dubbed “the republic of NGOs.”
Unable to create conditions in which Haitians themselves could take the lead in rebuilding their country, Haiti’s external partners undermined the establishment of a functioning internal governance system.
So, how can we translate our commitments and priorities into better lives for people who are affected by conflict and fragility?
OECD countries need to lead by example and meet the commitments that they have made.
Our partners, through groupings like the g7+, must continue to demand the changes in policies and practices that have been promised.
We also must plan to change for the long term.
As the Millennium Development Goals’ 2015 end date approaches, promotion of peace, security, and non-violent conflict resolution continues to be vitally important, and must be fully integrated into any future development agenda.
Recently, the members of the International Dialogue on Peacebuilding and Statebuilding, the high-level political forum that produced the New Deal, met in Washington, DC, to assess our progress in changing how we work and in implementing the New Deal commitments.
They agreed to the Washington Communiqué, which urges development partners, g7+ countries, and civil-society organizations to intensify their efforts to use the New Deal to deliver concrete results on the ground, and calls for a post-2015 development agenda that recognizes the universal importance of peace- and state-building.
Ultimately, our progress depends on the resolve of everyone to transform the lives of the 1.5 billion people whose lives are marred by violence, conflict, and insecurity.
A New Deal for Poor Farmers
NEW YORK – Many poor, food-importing countries around the world have become desperate in recent months, as global prices of rice, wheat, and maize have doubled.
Hundreds of millions of poor people, who already spend a large share of their daily budget on food, are being pushed to the edge.
Food riots are mounting. 
But many poor countries can grow more food themselves, because their farmers are producing far below what is technologically possible.
In some cases, with appropriate government action, they could double or even triple food production in just a few years. 
The idea is basic and well known.
Traditional farming uses few inputs and gets poor yields.
Poor peasants use their own seeds from the preceding season, lack fertilizer, depend on rain rather than irrigation, and have little if any mechanization beyond a traditional hoe.
Their farms are small, perhaps one hectare (2.5 acres) or less.
Under traditional agricultural conditions, the yields of grain – rice, wheat, maize, sorghum, or millet – are usually around one ton per hectare, for one planting season per year.
For a farm family of five or six living on one hectare, this means extreme poverty, and for their country, it means reliance on expensive food imports, including food aid. 
The solution is to increase grain yields to at least two tons – and in some places to three or more tons – per hectare.
If water can be managed through irrigation, this could be combined with multi-cropping (multiple harvests per year) to produce a crop during the dry season.
Higher and more frequent yields mean less poverty in farm families, and lower food prices for cities.
The key to increasing yields is to ensure that even the poorest farmers have access to improved seed varieties (usually “hybrid” seeds created by scientific selection of seed varieties), chemical fertilizers, organic matter to replenish soil nutrients, and, where possible, small-scale irrigation methods, such as a pump to lift water from a nearby well.
There is nothing magic about this combination of high-yield seeds, fertilizer, and small-scale irrigation.
It is the key to the worldwide increase in food production since the 1960’s.
The problem is that these improved inputs have bypassed the poorest farmers and the poorest countries.
When peasants lack their own saving accounts and collateral, they are unable to borrow from banks to buy seeds, fertilizer, and irrigation.
As a result, they grow food the traditional way, often earning little or nothing from their harvest, because it’s not even enough to keep their families alive.
History has shown that government action is required to help the poorest farmers escape the low-yield poverty trap.
If farmers can be helped to obtain simple technologies, income can rise, and they can accumulate bank balances and collateral.
With a bit of temporary help, perhaps lasting around five years, farmers can build up enough wealth to obtain inputs on a market basis, either through direct purchases from savings or through bank loans.
Around the world, government-run agricultural banks in poor countries once not only financed inputs, but also provided agricultural advice and spread new seed technologies.
Of course, there were abuses, such as the allocation of public credits to richer farmers rather than to needy ones, or the prolonged subsidization of inputs even after farmers became creditworthy.
And in many cases, government agricultural banks went bankrupt.
Still, the financing of inputs played a huge and positive role in helping the poorest farmers to escape poverty and dependency on food aid.
During the debt crisis of the 1980’s and 1990’s, the International Monetary Fund and World Bank forced dozens of poor food-importing countries to dismantle these state systems.
Poor farmers were told to fend for themselves, to let “market forces” provide for inputs.
This was a profound mistake: there were no such market forces. 
Poor farmers lost access to fertilizers and improved seed varieties. They could not obtain bank financing.
To its credit, the World Bank recognized this mistake in a scathing internal evaluation of its long-standing agricultural policies last year.
The time has come to reestablish public financing systems that enable small farmers in the poorest countries, notably those farming on two hectares or less, to gain access to needed inputs of high-yield seeds, fertilizer, and small-scale irrigation.
Malawi has done this for the past three seasons, and has doubled its food production as a result.
Other low-income countries should follow suit.
Importantly, the World Bank, under its new president, Robert Zoellick, has now stepped forward to help finance this new approach.
If the Bank provides grants to poor countries to help small peasant farmers gain access to improved inputs, then it will be possible for those countries to increase their food production in a short period of time.
Donor governments, including the oil-rich countries of the Middle East, should help finance the World Bank’s new efforts.
The world should set as a practical goal of doubling grain yields in low-income Africa and similar regions (such as Haiti) during the next five years.
That’s achievable if the World Bank, donor governments, and poor countries direct their attention to the urgent needs of the world’s poorest farmers.
A New Deal for the Lisbon Strategy
Whatever happened to the European Union’s Lisbon Strategy?
Not only is the public almost entirely ignorant of the EU’s policy agenda for boosting competitiveness, economic growth, and employment, but this ignorance extends to many intellectuals, academics, CEO’s, and even some MP’s.
For example, in all of the debates on the EU’s constitutional treaty, neither its supporters nor its opponents have so much as mentioned the Lisbon Strategy.
It is little wonder, then, that Euroskepticism – in France, the Netherlands, and elsewhere – is on the rise.
Despite the success and popularity of programs like ERASMUS, citizens don’t perceive the EU’s contribution to superior education or training.
Indeed, the last Eurobarometer survey on the Lisbon Strategy found that the European public sees little relation between EU policies and economic competitiveness.
Of course, some laboratories receive EU grants, but without recognizing a specific European mission in research policies.
Europe is generally considered more a constraint than as a plan, more as an instrument than a vision nourished by a clear and credible idea.
The essential responsibility for this state of affairs lies with Europe’s ruling class and policymakers.
As a recent assessment by former Dutch prime minister Wim Kok pointed out, the EU’s member states generally have not made the Lisbon Strategy a high priority, and they balk at giving the EU the means to pursue more ambitious policies to offset this neglect.
It is difficult to ask citizens to be enthusiastic about aims that their leaders ignore.
At bottom, the problem is one of legitimacy.
The main targets – jobs, growth, and research – are considered legitimate from the standpoint of fairness when described in general terms.
But the concrete policies needed to realize this aim are not, since reforming the welfare state and labor markets means more competition, which scares many citizens.
Legitimacy is even more problematic regarding recognition, which implies a feeling of community and attachment.
When we are faced with conflicting choices – burden-sharing through taxation, the organization of the public sector, the status of public employees, etc. – the member states are considered to be the only bodies entitled to decide.
In short, when the EU brings subsidies, it receives congratulations; but when it pushes for unpopular reforms, it becomes the scapegoat for political, social, and economic failures.
From an economic point of view, the Lisbon Strategy’s aim is to transform Europe into a power able to compete on equal terms with the US today and the great Asian countries.
But this aim does not appear to be creating a European identity, as the euro has.
Within many states, “power” isn’t politically correct.
Above all, there is no linkage between national power and European power.
If we want Europe to be more legitimate, we must explain how to tie these two dimensions of power.
Aside from ignorance of the Lisbon Strategy among the public and inaction on long-term reforms among the member states, a second problem concerns the lack of acceptance of the virtues of competition – the most effective way to ensure quality, innovation, and low prices for consumers.
Competition also puts an end to rent seeking and protection of traditional corporate advantages.
Of course, we must limit the scope of competition: there is no reason, for example, to extend it to taxation.
Similarly, while competition will improve the quality of research and education, this does not imply reduced public funding, a lower priority for basic research, or the elimination of scholarships.
Perhaps most importantly, competition is a powerful means to restore democracy and modernize political institutions by compelling policymakers to ensure transparency and accountability.
Elites must give up their privileges, and regulations on corporate governance must limit collusion between managers and civil servants or politicians.
We must explain to citizens Europe’s contribution to public ethics, and the democratic virtues of fair competition in economic, political, and social life.
Consider one of the main purposes of the Lisbon Strategy: the organization of research and higher education.
It is impossible to change radically the way scholars and research workers are appointed in most member states, and to revise completely the criteria for funding of faculties and laboratories.
But the EU can overcome national impediments by developing exemplary universities and research centers that would be properly European, serving as an incentive to quality and reform at the national level.
Emulation through excellence is the motor of competitiveness.
A good place to start is an idea supported by French Socialist leader Dominique Strauss-Kahn, who has proposed that 0.25% of Europe’s GDP be dedicated to research and used to create a European Agency for Research.
Moreover, Europe must build up tools for strategic analysis, assessment, and forecasting to provoke and nourish public debate.
Such think tanks at the European level must remain free and independent, but leaders must learn to pay attention to and integrate their recommendations into the policy-making process.
In many matters pertaining to the Lisbon Strategy, the EU cannot avoid member states’ concerns.
But as the states won’t be able to do everything alone and won’t renounce maintaining political control, we must be able to link the Union’s policies and those of specific states.
Otherwise, the Lisbon Strategy could merely empower an inefficient bureaucracy, rather than boosting the EU’s democratic legitimacy.
In short, the Lisbon Strategy could lead Europe to become a real power in the coming decades, or it could fuel further growth of Euroskepticism.
A New Deal for the New World
As former members of our countries' congresses we believe that it is time to create a North American Parliamentary Union (NAPU) to address the growing number of big issues that North America's national governments have pushed to the sidelines.
Both past and present have been burdened by the ad hoc nature of relations among the United States, Mexico, and Canada.
A fairer, more prosperous future for all three countries demands that we take a bold step forward.
Despite US Secretary of Defense Donald Rumsfeld's snide reference to ``Old Europe,'' North Americans can learn much from the European Union and European Parliament.
In the 1950's, most of Europe considered the idea of a Union with a single Parliament a pipe dream.
Today the EU elects its Parliament, shares a single currency, and controls a budget that emphasizes raising living standards within the less developed member countries.
Within the near future, the EU is likely to be 450 million people strong.
The combined population of the US, Mexico, and Canada is about 410 million people.
Yet North America has failed to match Europe in building the political structures necessary to focus the hemisphere on the problems of immigration, cross border security, labor rights, and environmental degradation; or in facilitating a more united approach to strong economic competition from Europe and Asia.
On the contrary, in the aftermath of the Iraq War, relations between the US and its neighbors, Canada and Mexico, are at their lowest level in years.
Clearly, efforts to deepen North American political and economic integration will be an uphill battle.
In the near future, the US government will be focused on homeland security, Iraq, the slumping domestic economy, and the run-up to the 2004 presidential election.
Canada's government has been more willing to approach North American issues on a bilateral basis than in a tri-national context; furthermore, Canadians are preoccupied with the consequences and aftermath of SARS and mad cow disease, as well as anticipating a new government next year.
Mexico's President Vincente Fox will govern through 2006.
But his vision of a North American Free Trade Association (NAFTA) encompassing elements of social and political fusion with his North American counterparts was sidetracked by the terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001, and by his political rivals' recent successes at the polls.
Notwithstanding this, most Canadians and Mexicans believe that cooperation in North America will proceed regardless of who is in office in Ottawa, Washington, or Mexico City.
Not only are Canada and Mexico the US's first and second largest trading partners, but the three countries maintain a myriad of relationships--in business, tourism, and culture--that do not pass through their embassies or governments.
Good feelings abound.
US citizens register high approval ratings in Canada and Mexico: 90% and 70%, respectively.
In proposing the creation of NAPU, we envision a specific plan to create a larger market by fostering an alliance between the three economies.
In just a single decade, the EU managed to bring poorer, peripheral member states--Greece, Portugal, Spain, and Ireland--from 50% to 90% of the EU average in per capita income, creating a bigger market for companies from wealthier northern countries, and stemming migration from poorer southern economies.
The EU invested upwards of $35 billion a year to assure the success of their Common Market integration.
North America has largely ignored the significance of ``common,'' preferring to focus on ``market.''
This blinded all three countries to the centrality of community.
We have failed to understand that a North American Free Trade Area (NAFTA) that achieves its full potential cannot be accomplished on the cheap.
A regional political structure will maintain the focus on vital but difficult issues such as immigration.
NAFTA was conceived under the assumption that expanded trade would trickle down benefits to all in the three countries.
Regretfully, this corporate-driven NAFTA exacerbated the disparities and asymmetries between Mexico and its two richer northern neighbors.
Moreover, throughout NAFTA's lifetime income and wealth have been further concentrated within the elite sectors of US and Canadian society.
Immigration illustrates the cost of integration without convergence. Demand for low-cost Mexican labor by US employers and the 10-1 wage gap between the two countries pushes 350,000 Mexicans to risk their lives every year for better paid jobs north of the border.
Without Mexican manpower, much of the work in the US simply would not get done. The issue must be addressed, not ignored and criminalized.
Everywhere nowadays, key decisions are made by a self-selected group of elites, often in non-transparent circumstances.
NAPU would allow for wider, more consistent participation in the consideration of issues now ignored in all three countries.
Inter-American issues can no longer be left subject to the whims and convenience of individual leaders.
The people of the US, Canada, and Mexico deserve better.
A New Democratic Agenda for Russia
MOSCOW – When Russian President Dmitri Medvedev delivered his annual address to the Federal Assembly I was struck by the fact that his speech seemed to be meant for an advanced, prosperous country, not the real Russia of today.
Russia will hold a presidential election in 2012.
What happens in 2011 will, in my opinion, be even more important than the election itself.
Indeed, the evolution of Russian society could transform Russian politics, despite those domestic opponents who deny change or those who unqualifiedly classify Russia as “incorrigibly authoritarian.”
But, in order for that to happen, a new agenda for Russia must be developed this year.
A decade ago, defense of Russia’s territorial integrity and restoration of governability topped the list of priorities.
People supported a president, Vladimir Putin, who was devoted to this “stabilization” agenda.
We may debate the means by which it was pursued, and how successfully, but Russia’s “existential” challenges were largely overcome.
But progress on stabilization only highlighted Russia’s unresolved problems, which the global financial crisis exacerbated, but did not cause.
After all, Russia’s resource-based, de-industrializing, expenditure-driven economy is the result of purely domestic choices.
Nor was it the crisis that gave rise to corruption, which affects officialdom at all levels, or that caused Russia to lose its democratic dynamic.
We Russians rode along on oil and gas, forgetting that these resources will not last forever.
But, even with favorable world market conditions, we did not manage to solve the problem of poverty, in which millions of Russians still live.
I am convinced that Russia’s troubles all come down to politics.
We need a democratic, competitive environment, initiative at all levels, an active civil society, and real public control.
Only under such conditions will difficult problems lend themselves to solution.
But, starting in 2005-2006, the authorities implemented measures that made responsiveness to acute problems practically impossible.
The decisions to appoint, rather than elect, regional governors, to introduce party-list voting, to raise the electoral threshold for parties to enter the Duma, and to repeal the minimum-turnout requirement – all accompanied by rampant manipulation of elections and the mass media – created a political system closed to feedback from society.
Not surprisingly, the political elite became self-absorbed and served only its own narrow interests.
This summer, with wildfires raging outside Moscow, the elite’s isolation took on a menacing nature.
But something else happened: society became more demanding, recognizing its own interests and knowing how to express them.
Although the traditions of self-organization in Russian society are neither deep nor strong, real movement in this direction became visible for all to see.
Activists from public movements, journalists, ecologists, businessmen, and ordinary people who had suffered the tyranny and corruption of public officials began to join in.
The authorities have recognized this, at least to some degree.
Medvedev's decision to suspend construction of a highway through the Khimki forest near Moscow in the face of widespread civic protest was important.
For many months, Moscow and federal authorities ignored the highway’s opponents, so Medvedev’s decision was a signal: contempt for the people is inadmissible.
Yet right after that, the bureaucracy tried to turn the public hearings – called to give people and civil institutions a voice in solving such problems – into an empty formality.
So the struggle between democratic and anti-democratic tendencies is becoming acute.
If the anti-democratic tendencies win out, all that we have accomplished in previous years will be jeopardized – including stability itself.
This threat evidently motivated Medvedev to speak out in November: “It is no secret,” Medvedev wrote in his blog, “that, as of a certain period, symptoms of stagnation have begun to appear in our political life, and the threat of turning stability into a factor of stagnation has appeared.”
The president’s statement was unexpected.
Medvedev’s assessment attested to his understanding that Russia’s problems are rooted in its politics – in the degradation of the ruling party, in the absence of a real opposition, and in the lack of respect for the rights of political minorities.
I welcome Medvedev’s emphasis on social concerns and his anti-bureaucratic rhetoric.
But his statements are only a first step toward formulating a new Russian agenda, the first point of which must be a renewal and acceleration of movement toward real and effective democracy.
It is vital that Russians believe that Medvedev’s words reflect his priorities, and that he is prepared to fight for them.
Among these priorities, one of the most important is education.
We have approached the point when the constitutional requirement of universal, free education may become a fiction.
People are asking: How is it that, after World War II, the state had enough money to provide free education, whereas today’s Russian state does not?
Society also demands effective mechanisms for combating corruption, which is turning into a serious political problem, precisely because it has widened the gap between the people and the authorities.
Indeed, today’s elite cannot or will not solve the problem.